<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % British-English "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author
>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<author
>&Mark.Donohoe; &Mark.Donohoe.mail;</author>
<author
>&Martin.R.Jones; &Martin.R.Jones.mail;</author>
<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>John</firstname
><surname
>Knight</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
>anarchist_tomato@herzeleid.net</email
></address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Conversion to British English</contrib
></othercredit
> 
</authorgroup>

<date
>2003-09-22</date>
<releaseinfo
>3.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>KControl</keyword>
<keyword
>colour</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="color">

<title
>Colours</title>
<sect2 id="color-intro">
<title
>Introduction</title>

<para
>The Colour Selection module is comprised of 4 sections:</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem
><para
><link linkend="kcmdisplay-preview"
>The colour scheme preview</link
>.</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
><link linkend="kcmdisplay-widget-color"
>The current <guilabel
>Widget Colour</guilabel
></link
>.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem
><para
><link linkend="kcmdisplay-color-schemes"
>The available Colour Schemes</link
>.</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
><link linkend="kcmdisplay-contrast"
>The contrast slider</link
>.</para
></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<note
><para
>A <emphasis
>Widget</emphasis
> is a commonly-used programmer's term for referring to User Interface elements such as buttons, menus, and scroll bars. You can think of them as the fundamental pieces that are assembled to make your application.</para
></note>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-preview">
<title
>Preview</title>

<para
>This section of the dialogue demonstrates how a colour scheme applies to a sample selection of widgets. It provides you with a <guilabel
>preview</guilabel
> of your current colour choices.</para>

<para
>A colour scheme consists of a set of 18 colours. </para>

<para
>Each of the widgets is labelled to help you identify how your changes will impact the colour scheme.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-widget-color">
<title
><guilabel
>Widget Colour</guilabel
></title>

<para
>The currently selected member of the colour scheme is shown in the combo box. This widget colour can be changed by clicking on the coloured box below the combo box. A colour selection dialogue will then appear, from which you may select a new colour. When you are happy with your colour selection, press <guibutton
>OK</guibutton
> in the colour selection dialogue. The colour will be updated in the Preview Area.</para>

<para
>You may select any member of the colour scheme from the colour combination box.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-contrast">
<title
><guilabel
>Contrast</guilabel
> Slider</title>

<para
>The <guilabel
>Contrast</guilabel
> slider allows you to change the contrast between different shadings of the selected colours.</para>

<para
>The preview area instantly updates to show the effect of your change.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-color-schemes">
<title
><guilabel
>Colour Scheme</guilabel
></title>

<para
>Various colour schemes are supplied with &kde;, and you are free to define your own.</para
> 

<para
>The three major colour components of each scheme are shown beside the name in the list. To preview a scheme in the larger preview area, click on its name in the list box. </para>

<para
>You can use the &kde;-supplied Colour Schemes as a starting point to devise your own Scheme. Click on the <guibutton
>Save Scheme...</guibutton
> button to store the colour scheme under a new name, then modify it. </para>

<para
>When such a user-created Colour Scheme is selected, changes to it (as shown in the Preview) can be saved with the <guibutton
>Save Scheme...</guibutton
> button; it can also be deleted with the <guibutton
>Remove Scheme</guibutton
> button.</para>

<note
><para
>The &kde;-supplied Schemes themselves cannot be changed or deleted.</para
></note>

<para
>You can use the <guibutton
>Import Scheme...</guibutton
> button to add new entries to the list. This might be colour schemes that you have created on another computer and saved, or colour schemes you have downloaded from a website.</para>

<para
>You can choose if you want &kde; to apply the colour scheme even to non-&kde; applications by enabling the <guilabel
>Apply colours to non-KDE applications</guilabel
>. Not all applications will allow this, but most do.</para>

</sect3>
</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
