<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
 <!ENTITY using SYSTEM "using.docbook">
 <!ENTITY kbabeldictchapter SYSTEM "kbabeldict.docbook">
 <!ENTITY catman SYSTEM "catman.docbook">
 <!ENTITY dictionaries SYSTEM "dictionaries.docbook">
 <!ENTITY menu SYSTEM "menu.docbook">
 <!ENTITY preferences SYSTEM "preferences.docbook">
 <!ENTITY kbabelfaq SYSTEM "faq.docbook">
 <!ENTITY glossary SYSTEM "glossary.docbook">
 <!ENTITY kappname "&kbabel;">
 <!ENTITY package "kdesdk">
 <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
 <!ENTITY % British-English "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title
>The &kbabel; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author
>&Stanislav.Visnovsky; &Stanislav.Visnovsky.mail; </author>
<author
>&Matthias.Kiefer; </author>
<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>Malcolm</firstname
><surname
>Hunter</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
>malcolm.hunter@gmx.co.uk</email
></address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Conversion to British English</contrib
></othercredit
> 
</authorgroup>


<date
>2003-09-18</date>
<releaseinfo
>3.1.91</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para
>&kbabel; is a suite of of an advanced and easy to use <acronym
>PO</acronym
> file editor comprising &kbabel;, a multi functional &cataloguemanager; and a dictionary for translators &kbabeldict;. It supports many advanced features and it lets you customise many options. </para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>KBabel</keyword>
<keyword
>catalogmanager</keyword>
<keyword
>kdesdk</keyword>
<keyword
>gettext</keyword>
<keyword
>translation</keyword>
<keyword
>i18n</keyword>
<keyword
>l10n</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title
>Introduction</title>

<para
>&kbabel; is an advanced and easy to use <acronym
>PO</acronym
> file (&GNU; gettext message catalogues) editor. It has many features, that make it easy to edit and manage your <acronym
>PO</acronym
> files. This includes full navigation capabilities, extensive editing functionality, search functions, syntax checking and statistics function. &cataloguemanager; is a file manager view, which helps you keep an overview over your <acronym
>PO</acronym
> files. &kbabeldict; allows you to translate any text using &kbabel; capabilities for automated translation. The &kbabel; suite will help you to translate quickly and also to keep translations consistent. </para>

<para
>With the &kde; project growing continuously, the number of <acronym
>PO</acronym
> messages is over 47000 at the time of writing this documentation (plus another 20000 messages used for translating application documentation). There is a need to stay organised and consistent across all translations. </para>

</chapter>

&using;
&catman;
&kbabeldictchapter;
&dictionaries;
&preferences;
&menu;
&kbabelfaq;


<chapter id="credits">
<title
>Credits and Licence</title>

<para
>&kbabel; </para>
<para
>Program Copyright &copy; 1999-2000 &Matthias.Kiefer; &Matthias.Kiefer.mail; </para>
<para
>Contributors: <itemizedlist>
<listitem
><para
>&Thomas.Diehl; &Thomas.Diehl.mail;</para>
</listitem>
<listitem
><para
>&Stephan.Kulow; &Stephan.Kulow.mail;</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para
>Documentation Copyright &copy; 2000 &Claudiu.Costin; &Claudiu.Costin.mail; and &Matthias.Kiefer; &Matthias.Kiefer.mail;</para>

<para
>Update for &kde; 3.0 Copyright &copy; 2002 &Stanislav.Visnovsky; &Stanislav.Visnovsky.mail;</para>

<para
>Malcolm Hunter<email
>malcolm.hunter@gmx.co.uk</email
></para
> 
&underFDL; &underGPL; </chapter>

&glossary;

<appendix id="installation">
<title
>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-kbabel">
<title
>How to obtain &kbabel;</title>
&install.intro.documentation; </sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title
>Requirements</title>

<para
>In order to successfully use &kbabel;, you need &kde; 3.x. </para>

<para
>All required libraries as well as &kbabel; itself can be found on &kde-ftp;. </para>

<para
>If you want to use the translation database, you need Berkeley Database II. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title
>Compilation and Installation</title>
&install.compile.documentation; </sect1>

</appendix>
&documentation.index;
</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
End:
-->
