<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kfloppy;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdeutils">
  <!ENTITY % Dutch "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
]>

<!-- ### TODO Is BSD a tradmark or a registrated trademark ? -->
<!-- ### TODO Is Minix a trademark or a registrated trademark ? -->
<!-- ### TODO Unify use of "disk", "floppy", "diskette", "floppy disk" (and "floppy drive") -->

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>

<title
>Het handboek van &kfloppy;</title>

<authorgroup>
<author
><firstname
>Thad</firstname
> <surname
>McGinnis</surname
> <affiliation
><address
><email
>ctmcginnis@compuserve.com</email>
</address
></affiliation
> </author>

<author
><firstname
>Nicolas</firstname
> <surname
>Goutte</surname
> <affiliation
><address
><email
>goutte@kde.org</email>
</address
></affiliation
> </author>

<othercredit role="developer"
><firstname
>Bernd</firstname
> <othername
>Johannes</othername
> <surname
>Wuebben</surname
> <affiliation
><address
><email
>wuebben@math.cornell.edu</email
></address
></affiliation>
<contrib
>Ontwikkelaar</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="developer"
><firstname
>Chris</firstname
> <surname
>Howells</surname
> <affiliation
><address
><email
>howells@kde.org</email
></address
></affiliation>
<contrib
>Developer (User Interface re-design)</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="developer"
><firstname
>Adriaan</firstname
> <surname
>de Groot</surname
> <affiliation
><address
><email
>groot@kde.org</email
></address
></affiliation>
<contrib
>Developer (Add BSD support)</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="reviewer"
><firstname
>Lauri</firstname
> <surname
>Watts</surname
> <contrib
>Nalezer</contrib>
<affiliation
><address
><email
>lauri@kde.org</email
></address
></affiliation>
</othercredit>

&Rik.van.Achterberg;&Rinse.Devries; 
</authorgroup>

<date
>2005-05-15</date>
<releaseinfo
>3.5</releaseinfo>

<copyright>
<year
>2000</year>
<holder
>Thad McGinnis</holder>
</copyright>

<copyright>
<year
>2005</year>
<holder
>Nicolas Goutte</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice
>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<abstract
><para
>&kfloppy; is een grafisch programma dat recht door zee 3,5" en 5,25" diskettes formatteert.</para
></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>kfloppy</keyword>
<keyword
>diskette</keyword>
<keyword
>formatteren</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title
>Inleiding</title>

<para
>&kfloppy; is een grafisch programma dat recht door zee 3,5" en 5,25" diskettes formatteert. </para>

<note
><para
>&kfloppy; depends on external programs and therefore currently works <emphasis
>only</emphasis
> with &Linux; and <trademark
>BSD</trademark
>. Depending if you are using &kfloppy; on &Linux; or on <trademark
>BSD</trademark
>, &kfloppy; has slightly different features.</para
></note>

<important
><para
>Make sure that your floppy disk is <emphasis
>not</emphasis
> mounted. &kfloppy; cannot format a mounted floppy disk.</para
></important>

</chapter>

<chapter id="usingkfloppy">
<title
>&kfloppy; gebruiken</title>

<para
>Bij het starten van &kfloppy; wordt er een venster geopend waar de gebruiker de instellingen kan configureren.Deze opties staan hieronder omschreven.</para>

<important
><para
>Make sure that your floppy disk is <emphasis
>not</emphasis
> mounted. &kfloppy; cannot format a mounted floppy disk.</para
></important>

<sect1 id="controlsettings">
<title
>Instellingen</title>

<para
>De instellingen worden gekozen door middel van drie keuzelijsten aan de linker bovenkant van &kfloppy;.</para>

<sect2 id="selectdrive">
<title
>Diskettestation</title>

<para
>Clicking on the top drop down box, which is labeled <guilabel
>Floppy drive:</guilabel
>, offers the user the following two choices:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem
><para
>Primary</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>Secondary</para
></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para
>Clicking on the second drop down boxfrom the top, which is labeled <guilabel
>Size:</guilabel
>, offers the user the following four choices:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem
><para
>3,5" 1,44MB</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>3,5" 720KB</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>5,25" 1,2MB</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>5,25" 360KB</para
></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para
>The &Linux; version of &kfloppy; has also a choice of size named:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem
><para
>Auto-Detect</para
></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<!-- ### TODO: typical floppy disk of a PC has not the hardware to support
Mac 800KB floppies at all, not only formatting. -->
<note>
<para
>The 800KB disk format used by <hardware
>&Mac; floppy drives</hardware
> cannot be supported on <hardware
>PC floppy drives</hardware
> since they are not capable of formatting disks in that fashion.</para>
</note>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="filesystems">
<title
><guilabel
>Bestandssystemen</guilabel
></title>

<para
>De derde keuzelijst, die Bestandssystemen heet, geeft de gebruiker de mogelijkheid om de volgende keuzes te kiezen, als ze toepasselijk zijn:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
>Dos</term>
<listitem>
<para
>This selection will have &kfloppy; place the MS-DOS/&Windows; type of file system on the diskette. The user will most likely want to choose this system if she or he will be using the diskette with those operating systems as they do not recognize other system types. (This is supported for &Linux; and <trademark
>BSD</trademark
>.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry
> 
<term
>ext2</term>
<listitem>
<para
>This selection will have &kfloppy; place the type of file system on the diskette which is most commonly used with &Linux;, however seldomly on floppy disks. (This is supported for &Linux; and <trademark
>BSD</trademark
>.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
>UFS</term>
<listitem>
<para
>This selection will have &kfloppy; place the type of file system on the diskette which is most commonly used with <trademark class="registered"
>FreeBSD</trademark
>. The user will likely want to choose this system if he or she will only be using the floppy disk with <trademark class="registered"
>FreeBSD</trademark
>. (This is supported for <trademark
>BSD</trademark
> only.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
>Minix</term>
<listitem>
<para
>This selection will have &kfloppy; place the type of file system on the diskette which often used on floppy disks used with &Linux;, (This is supported for &Linux; only.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="formatting-options">
<title
>Formatteeropties</title>
<para
>Links midden in het venster van  &kfloppy; zal de gebruiker een set van vijf formatteeropties vinden. De bovenste twee zijn keuzerondjes.</para
> <note
><para
>Deze term (keuzerondjes) stelt een set van opties voor waarvan er maar één kan worden geselecteerd - vergelijkbaar met een autoradio, waar maar één zender tegelijk aan kan staan.</para
></note
><para
>De onderste twee opties zijn om de diskette een naam te geven. Dit wordt hieronder uitgelegd:</para>

<sect2>
<title
>Formatteermethode</title>
<para
>&kfloppy; kan een diskette formatteren op de volgende twee manieren:</para>
<para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Snel formatteren</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This simply puts the new file system on the disk.</para>
<warning
><para
>All data on the disk will be lost, even if the data itself will not erased.</para
></warning>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Zero out and quick format</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This format first puts zeros on the disk and then creates the new file system.</para>
<warning
><para
>All data on the disk will be erased.</para
></warning>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Volledig formatteren</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Een volledige formattering reserveert de tracks en sectoren opnieuw, plaatst het gekozen bestandssysteem op de diskette, en formatteert de diskette. Hierbij worden de eventuele gevonden foute sectoren geblokkeerd.</para>
<warning
><para
>All data on the disk will be erased.</para
></warning>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title
>Integriteit verifiëren</title>

<para
>Dit zorgt ervoor dat &kfloppy; controleert of de formattering correct is geschreven. Dit staat toe dat verkeerde sectoren worden geïdentificeerd. </para>

<note
><para
>If bad sectors a found during the verify phase of a Full Format, the formatting is aborted and the file system is not written! </para
></note>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title
>Volumelabel</title>

<para
>De onderste twee opties staan de gebruiker toe om een volumenaam aan de diskette toe te voegen (of om deze te veranderen). Als het keuzevakje <guilabel
>Volumenaam:</guilabel
> is geselecteerd kan de gebruiker in het tekstvak eronder een naam invullen voor de diskette die geformatteerd gaat worden. Als de diskette wordt geformatteerd zal de volumenaam naar de diskette worden geschreven.</para>

<note
><para
>Due to a limitation of the DOS file system, a label can only be at most 11 characters long. For simplification, &kfloppy; assumes that this limit is true for all file systems.</para
></note>

<note
><para
>The file system Minix cannot have any volume label. In this case, &kfloppy; will ignore the volume label.</para
></note>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="buttons">
<title
>De knoppen</title>
<para
>Aan de rechterkant van &kfloppy; staan drie knoppen onder elkaar. </para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guibutton
>Formatteren</guibutton
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This button initiates the formatting process. Once the user is sure that all the settings are correct he or she may begin the process by clicking on this button. There will be a change in the two long rectangular boxes that span the bottom of &kfloppy;.</para>

<para
>The upper box is a status indicator that gives information about the process underway, especially the error encountered during the processing.</para>

<para
>Het onderste balk is een voortgangsbalk. Deze laat grafisch en numeriek de voorgang zien van het formatteren, en hierna van het controleren. Voor het starten is deze balk leeg - waarbij het alleen "0%" in het midden laat zien. Als er een proces plaatsvindt, zal de voortgang worden gevolgd, waarbij het vak van links naar rechts wordt gevuld. Tegelijkertijd zal het nummer in het midden verhogen, wat het percentage van het proces voorstelt.</para>

<note
><para
>As &kfloppy; uses external programs to format the floppy disk, it has to rely on these programs to give the right information for being able to display the progress bar. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Especially, the programs writing the file systems do not return enough data, so that the progress bar will remain at 0%.</para
></note>

<important>
<para
>Make sure that your floppy disk is <emphasis
>not</emphasis
> mounted. &kfloppy; cannot format a mounted floppy disk.</para>
</important>

<note
><para
>&kfloppy; does <emphasis
>not</emphasis
> unmount the floppy by itself, as this could mean that the user overwrite a floppy disk with important data on it.</para
></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guibutton
>Help</guibutton
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Dit roept het &kde; helpsysteem op, startend bij het handboek van &kfloppy; (dit document).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guibutton
>Bug rapporteren</guibutton
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Rapporteer een probleem aan het &kde;-team.</para>
</listitem
> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guibutton
>Info over KFloppy</guibutton
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This displays version and author information of &kfloppy;.</para>
</listitem
> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guibutton
>Info over KDE</guibutton
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This displays version and author information of KDE.</para>
</listitem
> 
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term
><guibutton
>Afsluiten</guibutton
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Door op deze knop de klikken wordt &kfloppy; afgesloten.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="command-line">
<title
>Commandoregelopties</title>

<para
>Ook al wordt &kfloppy; meestal gestart vanaf het &kde;-menu of een bureaubladpictogram, het kan ook geopend worden vanaf de commandoprompt of een terminal-venster. Er zijn een aantal opties die beschikbaar zijn wanneer dit gedaan wordt. Deze zijn:</para
> 

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>kfloppy <option
>--help</option
></command
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Dit laat de meeste basisopties zien die beschikbaar zijn voor de commandoregel.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>kfloppy <option
>--help-qt</option
></command
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Dit laat de beschikbare opties zien die gebruikt kunnen worden om de manier te veranderen waarop &kfloppy; samenwerkt met &Qt;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry
> 
<term
><command
>kfloppy <option
>--help-kde</option
></command
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Dit laat de beschikbare opties zien die gebruikt kunnen worden om de manier te veranderen waarop &kfloppy; samenwerkt met KDE.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>kfloppy <option
>--help-all</option
></command
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Dit laat een lijst zien met alle commandoregelopties.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>kfloppy <option
>--author</option
></command
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Dit laat de auteur van &kfloppy; zien in het terminal-venster</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>kfloppy <option
>--version</option
></command
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Laat versie-informatie zien van &Qt;, &kde; en &kfloppy;. Ook beschikbaar door middel van <command
>kfloppy <option
>-V</option
></command
> </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist
> 

</chapter
> 

<chapter id="credits">
<title
>Dankbetuigingen en licenties</title>

<!-- ### TODO: verify the copyright dates -->
<!-- ### TODO: make the copyright list prettier -->
<para
>&kfloppy; Formatter Program Copyright 1997 - 2000 Bernd Johannes Wuebben <email
>wuebben@math.cornell.edu</email
></para>

<para
>&kfloppy; Formatter Program Copyright 2002 Adriaan de Groot <email
>groot@kde.org</email
></para>

<para
>&kfloppy; Formatter Program Copyright 2004, 2005 Nicolas Goutte <email
>goutte@kde.org</email
></para>

<para
>Documentatie Copyright 2000 door Thad McGinnis <email
>ctmcginnis@compuserve.com</email
>.</para>

<para
>Documentation Copyright 2005 by Nicolas Goutte <email
>goutte@kde.org</email
>.</para>

<para
>Deze versie van het &kfloppy;-handboek is gebaseerd op het origineel door David Rugge <email
>davidrugge@mindspring.com</email
></para>
&underFDL; &underGPL; </chapter>

<appendix id="neededprogs">
<title
>Needed External Programs</title>

<para
>As already written earlier in this handbook, &kfloppy; works with the help of external programs to do the different formatting tasks.</para>

<note
><para
>If one of the programs is missing, &kfloppy; tries to work nevertheless. However the corrsponding option will not be available.</para
></note>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>fdformat</command
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This program is needed for low-level formatting, on &Linux; and on <trademark
>BSD</trademark
>. If it is missing, <guilabel
>Full format</guilabel
> will be disabled. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>dd</command
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This program is needed for zeroing-out, on &Linux; and on <trademark
>BSD</trademark
>. If it is missing, <guilabel
>Zero out and quick format</guilabel
> will be disabled. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>mkdosfs</command
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This program is needed for DOS formatting, on &Linux;. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>newfs_msdos</command
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This program is needed for DOS formatting, on <trademark
>BSD</trademark
>. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>newfs</command
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This program is needed for UFS formatting, on <trademark
>BSD</trademark
>. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>mke2fs</command
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This program is needed for ext2 formatting, on &Linux; and on <trademark
>BSD</trademark
>. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><command
>mkfs.minix</command
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This program is needed for Minix formatting, on &Linux;. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</appendix>

</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

// vim:ts=2:sw=2:tw=78:noet
-->
