<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
 <!ENTITY midi-kcontrol SYSTEM "midi.docbook">
 <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
 <!ENTITY % British-English "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author
>&Mike.McBride;</author>
<author
>&Jost.Schenck;</author>

<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>John</firstname
><surname
>Knight</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
>anarchist_tomato@herzeleid.net</email
></address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Conversion to British English</contrib
></othercredit
> 
</authorgroup>

<date
>2003-04-01</date>
<releaseinfo
>3.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>KControl</keyword>
<keyword
>sound server</keyword>
<keyword
>sound</keyword>
<keyword
>aRts</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="sndserver">
<title
>Sound System</title>

<para
>This control module is used to configure the settings for the &arts; sound server (the &kde; sound server).</para>

<sect2 id="sndserver-general">
<title
>&arts;</title>

<para
>The top option, labelled <guilabel
>Start aRts soundserver on KDE startup</guilabel
>, enables (or disables) the &arts; sound server.</para>

<tip>
<para
>You can find out more about &arts; in general by typing <userinput
>help:/artsbuilder</userinput
> into the &konqueror; location bar, or by finding the &arts-builder; documentation in &khelpcenter;. </para>
</tip>

<para
>The rest of the panel consists of options for the &arts; sound server.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Enable network transparency</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>If this option is enabled, then sound requests from the network will be honoured by the sound server. If this option is disabled, the sound server will only honour requests from the local computer.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Exchange security and reference info over the X11 server</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>If you have enabled network transparency, this option will allow the exchange of security and reference information. If in doubt, and you have enabled network transparency, this option should be checked.</para
></listitem
> 
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Run soundserver with realtime priority</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Enabling this option will give the sound server priority over other applications, which will help alleviate any problems delivering uninterrupted sound.</para>
<note
><para
>This option may require permissions you do not have as a regular user.</para>
<para
>This option also relies on certain real time support from your system which may not be available.</para>
<para
>If you do not have the necessary permissions, or your system does not have the real time support necessary, enabling this option will not cause problems.</para
></note
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Autosuspend if idle for:</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Normally &arts; locks the sound card device, so that other applications cannot use it. If you enable this option, then if &arts; has been idle for the amount of time you set, it will suspend itself, allowing any application access to the sound hardware. If &arts; receives another request, it will unsuspend, and continue as normal. Enabling this option may cause a small delay when you start an &arts; application.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Display messages using:</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>The application that will be used to display messages from the &arts; server. The default is <application
>artsmessage</application
> and this should probably not be changed unless you have thoroughly read the &arts; documentation.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Message Display</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>You can select how detailed the messages are that &arts; displays to you. You can choose to see only error messages, debug messages that are useful to the developers (you probably only want that level if you are a developer, or one has asked you to set this). Or you can choose to see generally informational messages when &arts; is doing something such as suspending itself. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<para
>At the bottom of this page is a button that allows you to <guibutton
>Test Sound</guibutton
>.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="sndserver-soundio">
<title
>Sound I/O</title>

<para
>I/O means Input and Output, and this panel allows you to configure how &kde; and &arts; interact with your sound hardware.</para>

<para
>The first option you can configure in the <guilabel
>Sound I/O</guilabel
> panel is the <guilabel
>Sound I/O method:</guilabel
>. It tells &arts; which sound system to use for input and output of sound. Current choices are <acronym
>ALSA</acronym
> (Advanced &Linux; Sound Architecture), <acronym
>OSS</acronym
> (Open Sound System), <acronym
>ESD</acronym
> (Enlightenment Sound Daemon), no audio at all and autodetect. In most cases <quote
>Autodetect</quote
> will be perfect for you.</para>

<para
>Other options are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Enable full duplex operation</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This option allows the sound server to play and record sound at the same time. This option should be enabled if you use applications (such as Internet telephones) which require simultaneous record and playback.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Use custom sound device:</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Normally, the sound server defaults to using the device called <filename class="devicefile"
>/dev/dsp</filename
> for sound output. This should work in most cases. An exception is, for instance, if you are using devfs, then you should use <filename class="devicefile"
>/dev/sound/dsp</filename
> instead. Other alternatives are things like <filename class="devicefile"
>/dev/dsp0</filename
> or <filename class="devicefile"
>/dev/dsp1</filename
> if you have a soundcard that supports multiple outputs or you have multiple soundcards.</para>
<tip>
<para
>If you often use non-&arts; aware applications, and you have a soundcard that supports it, try setting &arts; to use a different device than <filename class="devicefile"
>/dev/dsp</filename
>. This way, other applications will be able to use the default device, while &arts; is still running, without giving any error messages.</para>
</tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Use custom sampling rate:</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Normally, the sound server defaults to using a sampling rate of 44100 Hz (<acronym
>CD</acronym
> quality), which is supported on almost all hardware. If you are using certain Yamaha soundcards, you might need to configure this to 48000 Hz here; if you are using old SoundBlaster cards, like SoundBlaster Pro, you might need to change this to 22050 Hz. All other values are possible too and may make sense in certain contexts (&ie; professional studio equipment).</para
> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Other custom options:</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>There are some options offered by &arts; which may not be available in this control module, so you can add command line options here which will be passed directly to <application
>artsd</application
>. The options will be appended, so they will override the choices made in the <acronym
>GUI</acronym
>. To see the possible choices, open a &konsole; window, and type <userinput
><command
>artsd</command
> <option
>-h</option
></userinput
>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Sound quality:</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>These settings allow you to configure the quality of the sounds that will be played.</para>
<tip>
<para
>Note that a higher sound quality causes a higher <acronym
>CPU</acronym
> usage.</para>
<para
>If you find sound is slow, or using too much <acronym
>CPU</acronym
>, try reducing this setting.</para>
</tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Audio Buffer Size (response time)</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This slider determines how quickly the sound server can use your computer's resources. The faster the response time, the higher the <acronym
>CPU</acronym
> load will be.</para>
<tip
><para
>I would recommend that you start with the sound server set at 250 ms, and use &kde; for a while. If you notice that the sound does not work correctly, increase the responsiveness one step at a time until the problems disappear.</para
></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title
>Mixer</title>

<para
>If you have installed the optional kdemultimedia package, a &kcontrol; panel allowing configuration of the mixer will also appear here. If installed, you can read about this in <ulink url="help:/kcontrol/mixer/index.html"
>its own manual</ulink
>.</para>

</sect2>
&midi-kcontrol; </sect1>

</article>
