<chapter id="first-impressions">
<title
>First Impressions </title>

<epigraph>
<attribution
>Origin unknown</attribution>
<para
>You see to sea to see all that you can see is sea</para>
</epigraph>

<para
>First impressions are so important -- this is not only true for Agatha Christie's famous thriller <quote
>The Mousetrap</quote
> -- but also for &kde;. As we mentioned before, &kde; is supposed to be the most intuitive, easy to learn user interface available. In fact, we will have reached our goal when users no longer need this book in order to work with &kde;, causing the authors to lose their (unpaid and voluntary) jobs as documenters. </para>

<sect1 id="starting-kde">
<title
>Starting &kde; </title>

<para
>When you boot a &UNIX; system, one of three things should happen (that is, if the system works correctly; everything else is an undocumented fourth case). Either you stay in text mode and get a login prompt, you are logged into your &GUI; of choice automatically, or you are presented with a graphical login window. In the first case, you must log into your system and type: </para>

<screen
><command
>startx</command
>  
</screen>

<para
>If the installation was successful, the &kde; desktop should appear after a few seconds of initialisation. </para>

<para
>If a graphical login window is presented, then all that should be required is your login name and password. Assuming the &kde; installation was successful, &kde; should start without further intervention. </para>

<para
>If you have not done so already, we recommend changing your X display manager from <application
>xdm</application
> to &kdm;, which includes the same functionality, but with the advanced features of the K Desktop Environment. </para>

<para
>If your system is configured to automatically log you into a &GUI; you will need to consult your operating system manuals or support forums for instructions how to have &kde; be that &GUI;.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="desktop-components">
<title
>Desktop Components </title>

<para
>After everything has come up, take some time to explore the new environment. If you have already worked with <emphasis
>&Windows;</emphasis
>, <emphasis
>OS/2</emphasis
> or <emphasis
>&MacOS;</emphasis
>, many things should look familiar to you. The main visible parts of &kde; that you will see are the desktop itself, and the panel.</para>


<sect2 id="kde-logout">
<title
>Panel </title>

<para
>When you start &kde; for the first time, the panel is situated at the bottom of the screen. From here, you will start your programs and switch between the virtual screens. </para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
>&kicon; button</term>
<listitem
><para
>The &kicon; button is one of the most important places on your &kde; desktop. From here, you can start all &kde; applications installed. Later, when you learn how to use <link linkend="adding-programs"
>the K Menu Editor</link
>, you can also add other programs here as well. To start a program, just click on the button. You will see a list of different categories, plus some special entries. Whenever you move your mouse over an entry that has an arrow to the right, a new menu will appear. When you find the program you want to start, just click on it with the <mousebutton
>left</mousebutton
> mouse button.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
>Virtual Desktop buttons</term>
<listitem
><para
>When you start &kde; for the first time, note the four buttons labelled, appropriately enough, <guilabel
>1</guilabel
>, <guilabel
>2</guilabel
>, <guilabel
>3</guilabel
> and <guilabel
>4</guilabel
>. These represent your four <emphasis
>desktops</emphasis
>. Just click one of them. Don't worry; though they have <quote
>disappeared</quote
>, any open windows are still active (just take a look at the task list!). Using multiple desktops is one of the most powerful features of &kde; and the &X-Window;. Instead of placing one window over another, as you would when using &Windows; or OS/2, you can say <quote
>Well, on the first desktop, I will write the &kde; User Guide. On the second desktop I'll run the <command
>meinproc</command
> documentation compiler and see my results while compiling my &Linux; kernel on the third desktop, and reading my email on the fourth.</quote
> </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
>Icon bar</term>
<listitem>
<para
>Some people are so lazy that they consider even the two or three motions through the application's menu to be too much (me included). For them, additional buttons can be placed next to the desktop buttons; for example, shortcuts to your home folder, to your trashcan, to the <application
>Konsole</application
> terminal emulator and to the documents you use often. For information on how to add icons to the taskbar, read <link linkend="icons-add"
>Adding icons to your taskbar</link
>. </para>
<para
>&kde; by default installs several commonly used buttons, including links to &khelpcenter;, &kwrite; and &kcontrol;.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
>Time and date</term>
<listitem
><para
>At the far right end of the &kde; panel, you can always see the time and date.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
>The task list</term>
<listitem>
<para
>In another section of the panel, find a button for each open window. Just click on the button corresponding to the windows you want to open. Another click will minimise the window. A <mousebutton
>right</mousebutton
> mouse button click will give you a menu allowing you to move the window to another desktop, manipulate it's size, or close the application.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>
<sect2>
<title
>Using Windows </title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
>Window menu</term>
<listitem>
<para
><mousebutton
>Right</mousebutton
> mouse button clicking in the title bar of the window (where you see the application's name), you can see a window manipulation icon. This is the same menu you see if you <mousebutton
>right</mousebutton
> click on an application's icon in the panel taskbar. When you click on it, a context menu containing commands to manipulate the window is presented. The available commands are as follows:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>Move</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Lets you move the window with your mouse. Click on the <mousebutton
>left</mousebutton
> mouse button when you have the window where you want it to be.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>Resize</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Enables you to make the window smaller or larger. Move your mouse around and click when you are satisfied with the new size.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>Minimise</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Hides the window, leaving only an icon in the taskbar. Notice that the window title in this icon is now shown in (parentheses). To bring the window to the desktop again, click the icon.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>Maximise</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This will expand the window to the largest size possible. Note that &kde; will take the size of your <emphasis
>virtual desktop</emphasis
>, which means that the window could be bigger than your screen. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>Shade</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
><quote
>Roll</quote
> up the window, leaving only the titlebar visible. You can achieve the same effect by double clicking in the titlebar. To display the entire window again, select <guimenuitem
>Shade</guimenuitem
> again, or double click in the titlebar.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guisubmenu
>Advanced</guisubmenu
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Here you can find menu options that allow you to manipulate how windows may cover each other up, and more:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>Keep Above Others</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Selecting this will keep this window on top of all other applications, even when it does not have the focus.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>Keep Below Others</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Selecting this will keep this window below all others, even when it does have the focus.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>Fullscreen</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Selecting this makes the window take up the entire screen, similar to maximising, however, there are no window decorations showing. To switch to other applications, you may need to use the keybindings. For instance <keycombo action="simul"
>&Alt;&Tab;</keycombo
> to switch to another window or <keycombo action="simul"
>&Ctrl;&Tab;</keycombo
> to switch to another virtual desktop.</para>
<para
>To revert from fullscreen mode, you can use the <keycombo action="simul"
>&Alt;<keycap
>F3</keycap
></keycombo
> shortcut to show the window operations menu and deselect <menuchoice
><guisubmenu
>Advanced</guisubmenu
><guimenuitem
>Fullscreen</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>No Border</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Remove the window decoration and border from this window. This is useful for <quote
>monitor</quote
> type applications, such as &kpager; which you keep on screen all the time and will never need the window decorations for. Many people also like to use this for <application
>xterm</application
> and &konsole; windows.</para>
<para
>To revert from no border mode, you can use the <keycombo action="simul"
>&Alt;<keycap
>F3</keycap
></keycombo
> shortcut to show the window operations menu and deselect <menuchoice
><guisubmenu
>Advanced</guisubmenu
><guimenuitem
>No Border</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>Store Window Settings</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Stored the current settings for this window (position, size, whether it should always stay on top of all other windows &etc;.). This configuration will then be loaded the next time the window gets opened.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>To Desktop</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Enables you to send a window to another desktop. Choose the desktop where you want the window to be. The window will disappear at once. To see your window again, select the appropriate <guiicon
>Desktop Button</guiicon
> on the &kde; <application
>Panel</application
>. Selecting <guimenuitem
>All Desktops</guimenuitem
> will make the window <quote
>sticky</quote
> - it will display on all desktops at once, so you can alway see this window.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>Configure Window Behaviour...</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Allows you to change the look and feel, of all the windows in &kde;. This changes the window decoration widgets, including the titlebar buttons, but also including things such as checkboxes and buttons within dialogues, scrollbars, and the titlebar itself. The default is <guilabel
>Keramik</guilabel
>.</para>
<para
>You can further customise nearly everything about the window manager itself, including how windows behave when moved, what different mouse button clicks will do in different parts of the window, and how to decide which windows have focus.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guimenuitem
>Close</guimenuitem
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This will close the window. Sometimes the application will allow you to save your work, but in some cases (&eg;, old X11 applications) this does not work. It is best to close an application with its own commands, using this menu item only as a last resort.</para>
<para
>If the application itself is experiencing a problem that doesn't allow you to close it normally, using this menu item, or the window decoration close button will offer you the chance to <quote
>kill</quote
> it as gracefully as possible. Note that this may still leave the application open in the background but not showing any windows. Allowing the application to be killed in this manner will most likely allow you back into the desktop however, so you can check in a terminal window and clean up any remaining processes.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist>
<title
>Window Decoration Buttons</title>
<varlistentry>
<term
>Sticky button</term>
<listitem
><para
>This button looks like a plus symbol in the default window decoration (Keramik) and may look like a thumb tack in others. It performs the same operation as selecting <menuchoice
><guimenu
>To Desktop</guimenu
><guimenuitem
>All Desktops</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
> in the <guimenu
>Window Menu</guimenu
>, but requires fewer steps to invoke.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
>Title bar</term>
<listitem
><para
>The title bar containing the name of the window can be double-clicked in order to shade it. Use the <mousebutton
>right</mousebutton
> mouse button: The <guimenu
>Window menu</guimenu
> will reappear, allowing you to (un)maximise, iconify, move, resize, (un)sticky the window, to move it to another desktop (this works faster than the method with the sticky button). When a program does not react anymore, you can close (which will sometimes give you the opportunity to save your work) it. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guibutton
>Minimise</guibutton
>, <guibutton
>Maximise</guibutton
> and <guibutton
>Close</guibutton
> Buttons</term>
<listitem
><para
>To the right of the title bar, there are two buttons that can also be used to iconify or maximise the window (this is faster than using the window manipulation menu). Iconified windows can be brought back with a click on the taskbar. </para>
<para
>At the far left of the titlebar (with the default window decoration) is a button to close the window.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para
>To move a window, place the cursor on the title bar and hold down the &LMB;. Without releasing the mouse button, move the window to the location of your choice, then release the mouse button. If you want to resize a window, move the mouse cursor to the window border you wish to change. Once you have reached the correct spot, the cursor will change from an arrow to a bracket and an arrow. Hold down the &LMB; and drag the side in question to the location you wish, then release the button. Note that you may drag sides or corners (which will adjust the size in two dimensions at once.)</para>

<para
>Using the menu bar of each &kde; window is easy. Just click on what you want to do, and it will be done.</para>

<para
>Below the menu bar, there is a set of tool symbols you can use to execute commands. Whenever you move over them, an active picture will be marked. But the menu bar can do even more for you. Notice the textured stripe on the left of the menu and icon bars? Depress your <mousebutton
>right</mousebutton
> mouse button and a context menu will appear, allowing you to put the menu bar on the <guimenuitem
>top</guimenuitem
>, <guimenuitem
>left</guimenuitem
>, <guimenuitem
>right</guimenuitem
>, or <guimenuitem
>bottom</guimenuitem
> of the window. You can also hide the menubar by selecting <guimenuitem
>Flat</guimenuitem
></para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title
>Getting Help </title>

<para
>Help is available basically everywhere: On the desktop, just use the <mousebutton
>right</mousebutton
> mouse button and choose <menuchoice
><guisubmenu
>Help</guisubmenu
><guimenuitem
>KDesktop Handbook</guimenuitem
></menuchoice
>. On the &kde; panel, open the application menu and choose <guimenu
>Help</guimenu
>. Every &kde; program has a help menu.</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>
</chapter>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:t
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "chapter")
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil	
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
