<appendix id="legal-notices-and-trademarks">
<title
>Legal Notices</title>
<sect1 id="legal-status">
<title
>Licence</title>

<para
>&kde; is open source software, and all of &kde; is released under free licenses such as the GPL.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="trademarks-list">
<title
>Trademarks</title>

<!-- <para
>&kde; and <quote
>K Desktop Environment</quote
> are registered
trademarks of KDE e.V.</para
> -->

<para
>All trademarks mentioned on this web server or in &kde; documentation are recognised as belonging to their respective owners, including but not limited to:</para>

<simplelist>
<member
>&AIX; is a registered trademark of IBM Corporation</member>
<member
>&CSS;, &XHTML;, &XSL; and &XML; are common law trademarks of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, or Keio University on behalf of the World Wide Web Consortium.</member>
<member
>&Handspring; and &Visor; are trademarks of Handspring, Inc. and may be registered in certain jurisdictions.</member>
<member
>&Hewlett-Packard;, &HP; &LaserJet;,&HP-UX; PCL, PCL 5 and PCL 6 are U.S. registered trademarks of Hewlett Packard Company.</member>
<member
>&IRIX; is a registered trademark and &SGI; is a trademark of Silicon Graphics, Inc.</member>
<member
>&Java; and all Java-based trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries.</member>
<member
>&Jini; and all Jini-based trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. in the US and other countries.</member>
<member
>&Linux; is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds</member>
<member
>&LinuxPPC; is a trademark of LinuxPPC Inc.</member>
<member
>&Mac; is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc., registered in the United States and other countries.</member>
<member
>&Mandrake; and &Linux-Mandrake; are trademarks of MandrakeSoft.</member>
<member
>&Netscape; is a registered trademark of Netscape Communications Corporation in the United States and other countries.</member>
<member
>&NeXTSTEP; is a trademark of NeXT Software, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. </member>
<member
>&PalmOS;, &HotSync; and &PalmPilot; are registered trademarks of Palm, Inc.</member>
<member
>&PostScript; is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.</member>
<member
>&Qt; is a trademark of Trolltech AS</member>
<member
>&RedHat; and all Red Hat-based trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. in the United States and other countries. </member>
<member
>&Sendmail; is a registered trademark of Sendmail Inc.</member>
<member
>&Solaris;, <trademark
>Sun</trademark
> and <trademark
>SunOS</trademark
> are trademarks of Sun Microsystems Inc.</member>
<member
>&SuSE; is a registered trademark of SuSE AG</member>
<member
>&ThreeCom; is a registered trademark of 3com corporation in the United States and other countries.</member>
<member
>&Motif;, &UNIX; and the <quote
>X</quote
> device are registered trademark of The Open Group in the United States and other countries</member>
<member
>&Microsoft; and &Windows; are registered trademarks of the Microsoft Corporation</member>
<member
>XFree86 is pending trademark registration by The XFree86 Project, Inc.</member>
</simplelist>

<!-- Others that needs to be covered above:

&MacOS;
&Netscape;
&PMX;
&TrueType;
&X-Window;
Xing,
Yamaha
-->

</sect1>
</appendix>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:t
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "appendix")
End:
-->