<chapter id="toys-apps">
<title>&kde; Toys</title>

<para>You can get the following applications in the kdetoys
distributions.</para>

<para>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary
formats.</para>

<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink></para>

<para>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you
must compile them to get a working version.  Remember these are unstable and
might not even compile.  If you have a problem with an unstable application,
report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink></para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><application>fifteenapplet</application> and <application>eyesapplet</application></term>
<listitem>
<para>Some little applets to put the fifteen game and some spooky eyes on your panel.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KAphorism</application></term>
<listitem>
<para>Words of wisdom, based on the date.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&kmoon;</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Put the moon in your panel, and keep up with it's phases.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&kodo;</term>
<listitem>
<para>Ever wondered how far your mouse travels in a day? Wonder no more.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&kscore;</term>
<listitem>
<para>Sports fans can keep up with the latest scores for their favorite team with &kscore;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&kteatime;</term>
<listitem>
<para>The one application no &kde; developer would be without, it reminds you when the beverage that fuels &kde; is ready to drink.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KWeather</application></term>
<listitem>
<para>Get up to date weather forecasts from your nearest weather station, no matter where you are in the world. Or maybe keep an eye on your next holiday destination.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&kworldclock;</term>
<listitem>
<para>Watch as time marches across the world with this nifty applet.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KTux</application></term>
<listitem>
<para>The &Linux; penguin Tux takes to space in this screensaver.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</chapter>

