<!-- 
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd">
	--> 
<chapter id="configure">
<title
>Configuring &kde;</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How do I set the language used by &kde;?</para>
</question>

<answer>
<para
>There are two ways to set the language &kde; uses in the messages it will display:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry
><term
>Using the <application
>&kde; Control Centre</application
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Fire up the <application
>&kde; Control Centre</application
> and select <guimenu
>Regional &amp; Accessibility</guimenu
> followed by <guimenuitem
>Country/Region &amp; Language</guimenuitem
>. You can select your language and location here. If &kde; cannot find a translation in the first language chosen, it will fall back on the default language. This is usually (American) English by default.</para>
<note
><para
>Using the <application
>&kde; Control Centre</application
> is the preferred way of choosing languages in &kde;.</para
></note
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry
><term
>Using the <envar
>LANG</envar
> environment variable</term>
<listitem
><para
>The second method uses the standard locale setting on your system. To change the language, simply set the environment variable <envar
>LANG</envar
> accordingly. For example, if your shell is <application
>bash</application
>, execute <userinput
><command
>export</command
> <envar
>LANG</envar
>=de</userinput
> to set German as the language used.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>Is there any keyboard switcher for international keyboards for &kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Yes, you can configure it using the <application
>&kde; Control Centre</application
> <guimenu
>Regional &amp; Accessibility</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Keyboard Layout</guimenuitem
> configuration page. </para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How do I replace the standard text login screen with the &kde; login screen?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<note
><para
>Your distribution/&UNIX; flavour may have its own setup tools to change this (&eg; <application
>YaST</application
> on &SuSE; &Linux;). This will be the safest way to enable the &kde; login screen. However, if for some reason you do not wish to use these tools, the following instructions may be useful.</para
></note>
<para
>First, you need to change to the <quote
>xdm runlevel</quote
> (runlevel 5 on &RedHat; and &SuSE; systems) by editing your <filename
>/etc/inittab</filename
> file. In the file, you should have a line saying <userinput
>id:3:initdefault:</userinput
>. Change it to <userinput
>id:5:initdefault:</userinput
>. Now, at the end of the file, comment out the following line: <literal
>x:5:respawn:/usr/bin/X11/xdm -nodaemon</literal
> and replace it with <userinput
>x:5:respawn:<replaceable
>/opt/kde/</replaceable
>bin/kdm -nodaemon</userinput
>. <note
><para
>The location of &kdm; may differ on your system.</para
></note
></para>
<para
>For changes to take effect immediately, type <command
>init 5</command
> (for &RedHat; systems) at the shell prompt. <caution
><para
>It is risky to initiate a graphical login without checking beforehand whether it works. If it fails to work, you would be in for a hard time getting back....</para
></caution
></para>
</answer>
<answer>
<para
>For FreeBSD, you should edit the file <filename
>/etc/ttys</filename
> and change one of the lines that look like <programlisting
>ttyv8   "/usr/X11R6/bin/xdm -nodaemon"  xterm   off secure</programlisting
> to instead say <userinput
>ttyv8 "/usr/local/bin/kdm -nodaemon" xterm off secure</userinput
>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>

<para
>I would like to click the &LMB; anywhere on the desktop and have the <guimenu
>K</guimenu
> menu displayed.</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Open the <application
>&kde; Control Centre</application
> and choose <menuchoice
><guisubmenu
>Desktop</guisubmenu
> <guisubmenu
>Behaviour</guisubmenu
></menuchoice
>. You can now choose the behaviour of mouse clicks on the desktop. To have the <guimenu
>K</guimenu
> menu open from a single &LMB; click, change the entry labelled <guilabel
>Left button</guilabel
> to say <guilabel
>Application Menu</guilabel
>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>Where do I find information regarding &kde; themes?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Go to <ulink url="http://kde.themes.org/"
>http://kde.themes.org/</ulink
> or <ulink url="http://www.kde-look.org"
>http://www.kde-look.org</ulink
>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How do I change &MIME; Types?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>If you are using &konqueror;, do this instead: first, open a &konqueror; window and choose <menuchoice
><guimenu
>Settings</guimenu
><guimenuitem
>Configure Konqueror</guimenuitem
></menuchoice
>, then <guilabel
>File Associations</guilabel
>. Find the type you want to change (&eg; <literal
>text/english</literal
> or <literal
>image/gif</literal
>), and set the application preference order to whatever you want.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>&kde; (&kdm;) does not read my <filename
>.bash_profile</filename
>!</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>The login managers<application
>xdm</application
> and &kdm; do not run a login shell, so <filename
>.profile</filename
>, <filename
>.bash_profile</filename
>, &etc; are not sourced. When the user logs in, <application
>xdm</application
> runs <command
>Xstartup</command
> as root and then <command
>Xsession</command
> as user. So the normal practice is to add statements in <filename
>Xsession</filename
> to source the user profile. Please edit your <filename
>Xsession</filename
> and <filename
>.xsession</filename
> files.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How do I use &TrueType; fonts in &kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>

<para
>You need to install &TrueType; font support into your &X-Window; configuration. Please take a look at <ulink url="http://x.themes.org/"
>x.themes.org</ulink
> for the fonts, and <ulink url="http://www.dcs.ed.ac.uk/home/jec/programs/xfsft/"
>xfsft: &TrueType; Font Support For X11</ulink
> or <ulink url="http://X-TT.dsl.gr.jp/"
>X-&TrueType; Server Project Home Page</ulink
> for the font servers.</para>

<para
>If you have a bunch of &TrueType; fonts from &Microsoft; &Windows;, edit the <filename
>XF86Config</filename
> file to get the fonts from the font folder. Then just tell &kde; to use these new fonts with the font administrator utility.</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>Is it possible to enter, show and work with the Euro Symbol in &kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Yes and no. For details, look here: <ulink url="http://www.koffice.org/kword/euro.php"
>http://www.koffice.org/kword/euro.php</ulink
>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset>
</chapter>
