<!-- <?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd"
> -->
	
<chapter id="filemanager">
<title
>The File Manager and Web Browser</title>

<para
>The file manager and web browser of &kde; is &konqueror;. The &konqueror; home page is located at <ulink url="http://www.konqueror.org"
>http://www.konqueror.org</ulink
> where a &konqueror; specific <acronym
>FAQ</acronym
> can be found.</para>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How do I use &konqueror; as a web browser with a proxy?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>&konqueror; can be used with &HTTP; and &FTP; proxies. To set up the proxy server in &konqueror;, just select <menuchoice
><guimenu
>Settings</guimenu
><guisubmenu
>Configure &konqueror;...</guisubmenu
></menuchoice
> from the &konqueror; menu and go to the <guilabel
>Proxy</guilabel
> tab.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How can I change the appearance of a folder in &konqueror;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Right-click the folder, select <guimenuitem
>Properties</guimenuitem
>, click on the large icon in the dialogue which appears and choose another icon.</para>
<para
>To change the icon displayed for entries in the <guimenu
>K Menu</guimenu
>, use the <application
>Menu Editor</application
>, located at <menuchoice
><guisubmenu
>Settings</guisubmenu
><guimenuitem
>Menu Editor</guimenuitem
></menuchoice
>. </para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How can I do non-anonymous &FTP; transfers with &konqueror;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Normally, if you enter a &URL; like <userinput
>ftp://<replaceable
>ftp.somehost.com</replaceable
></userinput
>, &konqueror; will attempt an anonymous login to the &FTP; server. If you want to login as a particular user, enter a &URL; like <userinput
>ftp://<replaceable
>username@ftp.somehost.com</replaceable
></userinput
> instead. &konqueror; will ask for your password and connect to the server.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry
> <question
> <para
>What are <option
>%i</option
> and <option
>%m</option
> in the Execute line?</para
> </question
> <answer>
<para
>They are used by all &kde; applications (since they are implemented in <classname
>KApplication</classname
> and all good &kde; programs create a <classname
>KApplication</classname
> object before they even look at the command line arguments).</para
> <para
>A standard line for a &kde; application looks like this: <userinput
><command
>foo</command
> <option
>... %i %m -caption \"%c\"</option
></userinput
>. Pretty confusing, but it has been designed in that way so that it can integrate legacy, non-&kde; applications as smoothly as possible. &konqueror;, when executing the line above, will extend the command to <userinput
><command
><replaceable
>foo</replaceable
></command
> <option
>-icon something.png -miniicon something_mini.png -caption \"The Foo\"</option
></userinput
>. Both the icon and the mini-icon as well as "The Foo" are properties defined in the <filename
>.desktop</filename
> file. If the icons are not defined, they simply default to the executable name <replaceable
>foo</replaceable
>.</para>

<para
>This way a user can change these things in &kmenuedit; for his or her applications. The <option
>-caption</option
> option is important, because no user will accept that the menu item <guimenuitem
>Editor</guimenuitem
> starts something called <guilabel
>kedit-0.9pl4-build47</guilabel
>. Instead, he expects a window called <guilabel
>Editor</guilabel
>. Furthermore these names are localised, <abbrev
>i.e.</abbrev
> an American user launches <guimenuitem
>CD-Player</guimenuitem
> and gets a window called <guilabel
>CD-Player</guilabel
> while a German user launches <guimenuitem
>CD-Spieler</guimenuitem
> and gets a window called <guilabel
>CD-Spieler</guilabel
>.</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How do I specify the startup folder for &konqueror;?</para>
</question>
<answer>

<para
>Using the &RMB;, click on the Home icon and choose <guimenuitem
>Properties</guimenuitem
>. Under the <guilabel
>Application</guilabel
> tab you will probably find something like <command
>kfmclient openProfile filemanagement</command
>; just append <filename class="directory"
>file:/whereever/you/want</filename
> with the folder you would like &konqueror; to start in.</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question id="nsbookmark">
<para
>How do I import &Netscape; bookmarks?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>There is no need to import anything at all. &Netscape; bookmarks are automatically available under the <guimenu
>Bookmarks</guimenu
> menu in &konqueror; with no configuration on your part necessary. The <application
>Bookmark Editor</application
> is able to convert &Netscape; bookmarks to the format used by &konqueror;, if you want this.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How do I fool a site into believing &konqueror; is &Netscape; or some other browser?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>In &konqueror;, select <menuchoice
><guimenu
>Settings</guimenu
><guimenuitem
>Configure Konqueror...</guimenuitem
></menuchoice
> and in the configuration dialogue, select <guilabel
>Browser Identification</guilabel
>. Default and site-specific browser identifications can be set from here.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How do I configure &konqueror; to run &Java; applets?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Choose <menuchoice
><guimenu
>Settings</guimenu
><guimenuitem
>Configure &konqueror;...</guimenuitem
></menuchoice
> from &konqueror;'s menubar and then select <guilabel
>Java &amp; Javascript</guilabel
>. Set the <guilabel
>Path to Java executable</guilabel
> correctly. If it doesn't work, please check the <ulink url="http://www.konqueror.org/javahowto/"
>Konqueror + Java HOWTO</ulink
>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>What is this new <guilabel
>Smart</guilabel
> policy for JavaScript web popups?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>This new policy attempts to block intrusive JavaScript popup windows. If the user does not click on a button or submit a form to trigger the popup, then the popup is not permitted. Some sites will open a second new window from within the first and in that case, the second window will not show. </para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>Why doesn't my banking site work with &konqueror;? It pops up a new window with the login screen in other browsers, but not in &konqueror;.</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Make sure you have Javascript enabled, and the default JavaScript web popups policy set to <guilabel
>Ask</guilabel
> or <guilabel
>Allow</guilabel
>. The <guilabel
>Smart</guilabel
> policy is not always sufficient for some banks. Many banks also require &Java; support. You can find more help on enabling this at <ulink url="http://www.konqueror.org/"
>http://www.konqueror.org/</ulink
>. </para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>Why can't &konqueror; render &GIF; images?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>It is because you did not enable &GIF; support in &Qt;. Please see <xref linkend="gif"/> for more details.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How do I rename files?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Simply <mousebutton
>right</mousebutton
> click on the file and select <guimenuitem
>Rename</guimenuitem
> or click once on an already selected file. The default keyboard shortcut to rename a file is <keycap
>F2</keycap
>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset>
</chapter>
