<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->



<chapter id="windowmanager">
<title
>The window manager</title>

<para
>The default window manager provided by &kde; is the K Window Manager (&kwin;). Please read <quote
>The K Window Manager Handbook</quote
> (which should be accessible from the <application
>&kde; Help Centre</application
>) for usage information.</para>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>Are there keyboard shortcuts for &kwin; operations?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Yes. Please refer to "The K Window Manager Handbook" for the list of shortcuts available.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>Can I define my own set of keyboard shortcuts?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Yes. Launch the <application
>&kde; Control Centre</application
> and select <menuchoice
><guimenu
>Regional &amp; Accessibility</guimenu
><guimenuitem
>Keyboard Shortcuts</guimenuitem
></menuchoice
> to configure window manager bindings like maximising windows, &etc;. </para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>When I "iconify" a window, it disappears. Where does it go?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>With many &X-Window; &GUI;s, the minimise button (a little dot) will erase the window that the program is running in and create, instead, an icon on the desktop. &kde; does not do this. Instead, when a window is iconified it is simply hidden (but the program is still running).</para>
<para
>There are a few ways to access <quote
>disappeared</quote
> windows:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para
>If you are running the taskbar part of &kicker;, you can choose to have a list of tasks displayed on your desktop. Iconified tasks will have their names displayed in grey.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para
>If you click the &MMB; on the root window (&ie;, the background of the desktop), &kwin; will give you a list of all available tasks.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>How do I maximise windows only vertically or horizontally?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Provided your window is not already maximised, clicking on the maximise button with the &LMB;/&MMB;/&RMB; will maximise fully/vertically/horizontally respectively.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>What is <quote
>shading</quote
> a window?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>By <quote
>shading</quote
> a window we mean <quote
>rolling up</quote
> the window leaving just the title bar visible. You can do this by double clicking on the window title bar.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<!-- Not sure this is still applicable
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para
>Is it possible to have FVWM2-like shadow frameworks for the
placement of windows?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para
>Yes.  Run <application
>&kde; Control Center</application
> and select <guimenu
>Look and Feel</guimenu>
followed by <guisubmenu
>Window Behavior</guisubmenu
> and finally
<guimenuitem
>Advanced</guimenuitem
>.  There is a dialog option that
allows you to set the placement policy you want.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
-->
</qandaset>
</chapter>

