<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % British-English "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author
>&Craig.Drummond; &Craig.Drummond.Mail;</author>

<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>Malcolm</firstname
><surname
>Hunter</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
>malcolm.hunter@gmx.co.uk</email
></address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Conversion to British English</contrib
></othercredit
> 
</authorgroup>

<date
>2003-10-22</date>
<releaseinfo
>3.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>KControl</keyword>
<keyword
>fonts</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="fontinst">
<title
>Font Installer</title>

<para
>This module is responsible for installing (and uninstalling) fonts. The installer will configure X (XFree86), XRender, (anti-aliasing), and <application
>Ghostscript</application
> (printing), for any TrueType (<literal role="extension"
>.ttf</literal
>) and Type1 (<literal role="extension"
>.pfa</literal
>, <literal role="extension"
>.pfb</literal
>) fonts that you care to install - bitmap (<literal role="extension"
>.bdf</literal
>, <literal role="extension"
>.pcf</literal
>, <literal role="extension"
>.snf</literal
>), and Speedo (<literal role="extension"
>.spd</literal
>), fonts will also be installed, but these can only used by X.</para>

<para
>When the module is started by a normal (non-root) user, then the settings will refer to their personal configuration, and installed fonts will be available to them only. For <systemitem class="username"
>root</systemitem
>, the settings will usually refer to the system-wide configuration, and as such any installed fonts should be available to all users.</para>
<para
>If you install fonts as a normal user and notice the fonts used for display (and for print preview) do not match those of the printed output - then you should re-install the fonts system-wide (i.e. as <systemitem class="username"
>root</systemitem
>). This can occur because when printing the output is sent to a printer queue - and when the system comes to actually send the information to the printer, it is running as a different user (usually <systemitem class="username"
>lp</systemitem
>), and cannot find the font files.</para>
<para
>To install fonts, simply select the "Add Fonts" button - this will produce a file dialogue, then just locate the fonts to install. Likewise, to remove a font, simply highlight a font and press the "Delete" button.</para>
<para
>Fonts may also be "disabled" - this basically just "hides" the font file, so that the font system cannot "see" it. To enable/disable fonts, just highlight the required fonts, and select the "Enable" or "Disable" button. </para>
<sect2 id="using-konqueror">
<title
>Using Konqueror</title>
<para
>You can also use Konqueror to install fonts via drag-and-drop. To do this just type <ulink url="fonts:/"
>fonts:/</ulink
> into Konqueror's Location bar.</para>
<para
>As a normal (non-root) user, this will produce 2 top-level folders:</para>
<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para
><ulink url="fonts:/Personal"
>Personal</ulink
> - this will display your personal fonts.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para
><ulink url="fonts:/System"
>System</ulink
> - this will display the system wide fonts. If you drag-n-drop a font on to the folders here, you will be asked for the root password in order to install the font.</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>
<para
>If you drop a font over <ulink url="fonts:/"
>fonts:/</ulink
>, then you will be asked whether this should go into "Personal", or "System".</para>
<para
>As root, just the contents of the system font folder will be displayed - as root does not have any "personal" fonts.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>
</article>
