<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % British-English "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author
>&Jost.Schenck; &Jost.Schenck.mail;</author>
<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>Malcolm</firstname
><surname
>Hunter</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
>malcolm.hunter@gmx.co.uk</email
></address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Conversion to British English</contrib
></othercredit
> 
</authorgroup>

<date
>2003-10-13</date>
<releaseinfo
>3.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>KControl</keyword>
<keyword
>session</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="sessions">
<title
>Session Manager</title>

<sect2 id="sessions-use">
<title
>Use</title>

<para
>In this control module you can configure &kde;'s session manager.</para>

<para
>Session management refers to &kde;'s ability to save the state of applications and windows when you log out of &kde; and restore them when you log back in.</para>

<para
>The <guilabel
>General</guilabel
> section contains one setting:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Confirm logout</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>If this option is checked, when logging out, &kde; will display a dialogue asking for confirmation. In this dialogue you can also choose whether you want to restore your current session when you login the next time.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para
>You may choose one of three options on what should happen when you log into &kde;:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Restore previous session</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>If this option is checked, &kde; will save your current session's state when you logout. &kde; will restore your session on the next login, so you can continue to work with a desktop just like you left it.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Restore manually saved session</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Instead of restoring &kde; to the state it was when you logged out last, it will be restored to a specific state that you have saved manually. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Start with an empty session</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>If you choose this option, &kde; will never restore sessions that it has saved.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para
>You can configure what should happen by default when you log out of &kde;. These options are not possible on all operating systems, and they require the use of &kdm; as your login manager. </para>

<para
>The options available are self explanatory, if you are in doubt, leave the default settings. They are:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem
><para
><guilabel
>Login as different user</guilabel
> (this is the default)</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
><guilabel
>Turn off computer</guilabel
></para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
><guilabel
>Restart computer</guilabel
></para
></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para
>Finally, you can enter a colon (<literal
>:</literal
>) separated list of applications that should not be saved in sessions, and therefore will not be started when restoring a session. For example <userinput
>xterm:konsole</userinput
>.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>