<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % British-English "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author
>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<author
>&Jost.Schenck; &Jost.Schenck.mail;</author>
<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>John</firstname
><surname
>Knight</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
>anarchist_tomato@herzeleid.net</email
></address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Conversion to British English</contrib
></othercredit
> 
</authorgroup>

<date
>2003-10-08</date>
<releaseinfo
>3.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>KControl</keyword>
<keyword
>desktop</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="desktop">

<title
>Desktop</title>

<sect2 id="desktop-appearance">
<title
><guilabel
>Appearance Tab</guilabel
></title>

<para
>Here you can configure how icons on your desktop appear.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Standard font:</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This option can be used to change the typeface used on the desktop. Simply select your typeface from the dropdown box.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Font size:</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>You can change the relative size of the text on the Desktop. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Normal text colour:</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This option lets you select the colour of normal (or unhighlighted) text.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry
><term
><guilabel
>Text background colour:</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This option lets you select the background colour of normal text. If left unchecked, the text has a transparent background. If selected, you can choose the colour by pressing the button. </para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Underline filenames:</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>Determines if file names are underlined on the Desktop.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="desktop-number">
<title
><guilabel
>Multiple Desktops</guilabel
></title>

<para
>&kde; offers you the possibility to have several virtual desktops. In this tab you can configure the number of desktops as well as their names. Just use the slider to adjust the number of desktops. You can assign names to the desktops by entering text into the text fields below.</para
> 

<para
>If enable <guilabel
>Mouse wheel over desktop switches desktop</guilabel
> then scrolling the wheel over an empty space on the desktop will change the the next virtual desktop numerically, in the direction you scrolled (either up or down).</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="desktop-desktop-path">
<title
><guilabel
>Paths</guilabel
></title>

<para
>You can use this section to configure where Desktop files, Wastebin files, and Autostart files are stored on your computer as well as the standard path for documents. </para>

<warning
><para
>By changing the values in the first three of these paths, you will automatically move the files from their previous to their new location. </para
></warning>

<note
><para
>Do not just delete the icons from the desktop. If you dislike them move them somewhere else in this module or hide them (with a dot in the front of the filename). If the paths in this dialogue do not exist when &kde; is started, they will be recreated.</para
></note>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
