<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % British-English "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author
>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<author
>&Brad.Hards; &Brad.Hards.mail;</author>
<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>John</firstname
><surname
>Knight</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
>anarchist_tomato@herzeleid.net</email
></address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Conversion to British English</contrib
></othercredit
> 
</authorgroup>

<date
>2004-10-09</date>
<releaseinfo
>3.03.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para
>This is the documentation for the &kde; &kcontrol; module that configures mice and other pointing devices. </para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>KControl</keyword>
<keyword
>mouse</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="mouse">
<title
>Mouse</title>

<para
>This module allows you to configure your pointing device. Your pointing device may be a mouse, a track ball, a touch-pad, or another piece of hardware that performs a similar function.</para>

<para
>This module is divided into several tabs: <link linkend="mouse-general"
>General</link
>, <link linkend="cursor-theme"
>Cursor Theme</link
>, <link linkend="mouse-advanced"
>Advanced</link
> and <link linkend="mouse-navigation"
>Mouse Navigation</link
>. </para>

<sect2 id="mouse-general">
<title
><guilabel
>General</guilabel
></title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Button Order</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>If you are left-handed, you may prefer to swap the functions of the <mousebutton
>left</mousebutton
> and <mousebutton
>right</mousebutton
> buttons on your pointing device by choosing the <quote
>Left handed</quote
> option. If your pointing device has more than two buttons, only those that function as the <mousebutton
>left</mousebutton
> and <mousebutton
>right</mousebutton
> buttons are affected. For example, if you have a three-button mouse, the <mousebutton
>middle</mousebutton
> button is unaffected.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Reverse scroll direction</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>With this checkbox selected, the scroll wheel (if any) will work in the opposite direction (so that if rolling the top of the scroll wheel towards you previously causes a scroll down, then it will now cause a scroll up). This may be useful to handle a unusual setup of the X server. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Double-click to open files and folders (select icons on first click)</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>If this option is not checked, icons/files will be opened with a single click of the <mousebutton
>left</mousebutton
> mouse-button. This default behaviour is consistent with what you would expect when you click links in most web browsers. If checked however, icons/files will be opened with a double click, while a single click will only select the icon or file. This is the behaviour you may know from other desktops or operating systems.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Single-click to open files and folders</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This is the default setting for &kde;. Clicking once on an icon will open it. To select you can drag around the icon(s) or <keycombo action="simul"
>&Ctrl;<mousebutton
>Right</mousebutton
></keycombo
> click, or simply click and hold to drag it. You can also enable automatic selection of icons using the <guilabel
>Automatically select icons</guilabel
> checkbox, discussed below.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Change pointer shape over icons</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>When this option is checked, the shape of the mouse pointer changes whenever it is over an icon.</para>

<tip
><para
>This option should be checked in most situations. It gives more visual feedback and says, in essence, if you click here, something will happen.</para
></tip>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Automatically select icons</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>As noted above, if you have <guilabel
>Single-click to open files and folders</guilabel
> selected, you can select icons by dragging around them, or by using <keycombo action="simul"
>&Ctrl;<mousebutton
>Right</mousebutton
></keycombo
> click. If you routinely need to select icons, you may want to enable this checkbox, which will allow icons to be selected automatically by pausing over the icon. The <guilabel
>Delay:</guilabel
> slider determines how long is required before the automatic selection takes effect. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Visual feedback on activation</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>When this option is checked, &kde; gives you visual feedback whenever you click on something and activate it.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cursor-theme">
<title
><guilabel
>Cursor Theme</guilabel
></title>

<para
>This tab allows you to select from a number of cursor themes. A preview of the cursor display is shown above the listbox. </para>

<note
><para
>The features provided by this tab may not be available on some systems. Your system may need to be updated to support cursor themes. </para
></note>

<para
>If you have additional cursor themes available to you, you can install and remove them using the buttons below the listbox. Note that you cannot remove the default themes. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="mouse-advanced">
<title
>Advanced</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term id="peripherals-mouse-acceleration">
<guilabel
>Pointer acceleration</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This option allows you to change the relationship between the distance that the mouse pointer moves on the screen and the relative movement of the physical device itself (which may be a mouse, track-ball, or some other pointing device.)</para>

<para
>A high value for the acceleration multiplier will lead to large movements of the mouse pointer on the screen, even when you only make a small movement with the physical device.</para>

<tip
><para
>A multiplier between <guilabel
>1x</guilabel
> and <guilabel
>3x</guilabel
> will works well for many systems. With a multiplier over <guilabel
>3x</guilabel
> the mouse pointer may become difficult to control.</para
></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Pointer threshold</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>The threshold is the smallest distance that the mouse pointer must move on the screen before acceleration has any effect. If the movement is within the threshold, the mouse pointer moves as if the acceleration were set to <guilabel
>1x</guilabel
>.</para>

<para
>Thus, when you make small movements with the physical device (&eg; mouse), you still have fine control of the mouse pointer on the screen, whereas larger movements of the physical device will move the mouse pointer rapidly to different areas on the screen.</para>

<para
>You can set the threshold value by dragging the slider button or by clicking the up/down arrows on the spin-button to the left of the slider.</para>

<tip
><para
>In general, the higher you set the <guilabel
>Pointer acceleration</guilabel
> value, the higher you'll want to set the <guilabel
>Pointer threshold</guilabel
> value. For example, A <guilabel
>Pointer threshold</guilabel
> of 4 pixels may be appropriate for a <guilabel
>Pointer Acceleration</guilabel
> of 2x, but 10 pixels might be better for 3x.</para
></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Double click interval</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This is the maximum amount of time between clicks for &kde; to register a double click. If you click twice, and the time between those two clicks is less than this number, &kde; recognises that as a double click. If the time between these two clicks is greater than this number, &kde; recognises those as two <emphasis
>separate</emphasis
> single clicks.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Drag start time</guilabel
> and <guilabel
>Drag start distance</guilabel
></term>

<listitem>
<para
>If you <itemizedlist
> <listitem
><para
>click with the mouse</para
></listitem
> <listitem
><para
>drag within the time specified in <guilabel
>Drag start time</guilabel
>, and </para
></listitem
> <listitem
><para
>move a distance equal to or greater than the number (of pixels) specified in <guilabel
>Drag start distance</guilabel
></para
> </listitem
> </itemizedlist
> &kde; will drag the selected item.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Mouse wheel scrolls by</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>If you have a wheel mouse, use the slider to determine how many lines of text one <quote
>step</quote
> of the mouse wheel will scroll.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="mouse-navigation">
<title
><guilabel
>Mouse Navigation</guilabel
></title>

<para
>This tab allows you to configure the keyboard number pad keys as a mouse-type device. This may be useful when you are working on a device without another pointing device, or where you have no other use for the number pad. </para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Move pointer with keyboard (using the num pad)</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>To enable keyboard mouse mode, you need to select the checkbox labelled <guilabel
>Move pointer with keyboard (using the num pad)</guilabel
>. When you do this, the other settings will become enabled, and you can customise the keyboard pointer behaviour further, if required. </para>
<para
>The various keys on the number pad move in the direction you would expect. Note that you can move diagonally as well as up, down, left and right. The <keycap
>5</keycap
> key emulates a click to a pointer button, typically &LMB;. You change which button is emulated by using the <keycap
>/</keycap
> key (which makes it &LMB;), <keycap
>*</keycap
> key (which makes it &MMB;) and <keycap
>-</keycap
> (which makes it &RMB;). Using the <keycap
>+</keycap
> emulates a doubleclick to the selected pointer button. You can use the <keycap
>0</keycap
> key to emulate holding down the selected pointer button (for easy dragging), and then use the <keycap
>.</keycap
> to emulate releasing the selected pointer button. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Acceleration delay</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This is the time (in milliseconds) between the initial key press and the first repeated motion event for mouse key acceleration. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Repeat interval</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This is the time in milliseconds between repeated motion events for mouse key acceleration. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Acceleration time</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This is the number of key events before the pointer reaches a maximum speed for mouse key acceleration. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Maximum speed</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This is the maximum speed in pixels per key event the pointer can reach for mouse key acceleration. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Acceleration profile</guilabel
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>This is the slope of the acceleration curve for mouse key acceleration. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
