<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % British-English "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author
>&Lauri.Watts; &Lauri.Watts.mail;</author>
<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>Malcolm</firstname
><surname
>Hunter</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
>malcolm.hunter@gmx.co.uk</email
></address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Conversion to British English</contrib
></othercredit
> 
</authorgroup>

<date
>2003-09-22</date>
<releaseinfo
>3.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>KControl</keyword>
<keyword
>launch feedback</keyword>
<keyword
>cursor</keyword>
<keyword
>busy</keyword>
</keywordset>

</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="launch-feedback">
<title
>Launch Feedback</title>

<para
>Sometimes it is reassuring to know that your computer didn't just ignore your command, and something is happening behind the scenes. In this module you can configure visible feedback to help you know if you really hit that icon or not.</para>
	
<para
>The traditional way to indicate that your computer is busy is to modify the cursor, and you can turn this on by choosing a <guilabel
>Busy Cursor</guilabel
> checkbox.</para>

<para
>With this option enabled, your cursor will have an icon attached to it for a short time, when a new application is being launched. You can configure how long this icon is displayed beside your cursor with the <guilabel
>Startup indication timeout (seconds):</guilabel
> spinbox. The default is 30 seconds.</para>

<para
>There are several variations of busy cursor available, including a blinking cursor, a bouncing cursor or a passive icon with no animation.</para>

<para
>Traditional &kde; launch notification has taken another form, which you can also enable and disable here. Normally when you start an application, it gets an immediate entry in the taskbar, with the icon replaced by a spinning hourglass to let you know something is happening. You can toggle this behaviour on and off with the <guilabel
>Enable Taskbar Notification</guilabel
> checkbox, and when it's enabled, you can set a time in the <guilabel
>Startup indication timeout (seconds):</guilabel
> spinbox.</para>

<para
>Not all applications that you start will eventually show a window, or an entry in the taskbar. Some of them, for example, are docked into the &kde; system tray. Alternatively, it might be that you sent it off to a different virtual desktop, and <quote
>Show all windows</quote
> is unchecked in the &kcontrolcenter; module <guimenuitem
>Taskbar</guimenuitem
>. Setting a timeout ensures that, even in these cases, you can still get launch feedback, but also that it will go away when the job is done.</para>

</sect1>
</article>