<chapter id="kdeadmin-applications">
<title
>kdeadmin applications</title>

<para
>You can get the following applications in the kdeadmin distributions.</para>

<para
>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary formats.</para>

<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink
></para>

<para
>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you must compile them to get a working version. Remember these are unstable and might not even compile. If you have a problem with an unstable application report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para
> <para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink
></para>

<variablelist
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kcron;</term
> <listitem
><para
>&kde; puts a pretty and user friendly face on the task scheduling capabilities of <application
>Cron</application
></para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kuser;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A graphical user manager (requires <systemitem class="username"
>root</systemitem
> privileges to run)</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kpackage;</term
> <listitem
><para
>Keep your system up to date with &kde;'s own package manager.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kdat;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A backup utility for tape drive owners.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ksysv;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A SysV-Init editor, to keep your computer's start up organised.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kwuftpd;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A graphical interface to configure the <application
>wuftpd</application
> &FTP; daemon.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> </variablelist>

</chapter>

