<chapter id="kdebase-applications">
<title
>kdebase applications</title>

<para
>You can get the following applications in the kdebase distributions.</para>

<para
>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary formats.</para>

<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink
></para>

<para
>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you must compile them to get a working version. Remember these are unstable and might not even compile. If you have a problem with an unstable application, report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink
></para>

<variablelist
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kwin;</term
> <listitem
><para
>&kde;'s own window manager</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&konqueror;</term
> <listitem
><para
>Browse the web, your hard drive or an &FTP; site with equal ease.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kicker;</term
> <listitem
><para
>The &kde; panel, incorporating the taskbar, pager, clock and the <guimenu
>K</guimenu
> menu.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&konsole;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A highly configurable X terminal emulator.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kate;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A powerful and fully featured text editor, with syntax highlighting, project management, and much more.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kwrite;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A lighterweight text editor, still with full syntax highlighting and many features.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&klipper;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A clipboard utility with a difference - you can configure different actions based on things you copy.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
><application
>KDesktop</application
></term
> <listitem
><para
>The desktop itself.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&khelpcenter;</term
> <listitem
><para
>&kde;'s own help centre, including the ability to browse man and info pages.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kdm;</term
> <listitem
><para
>&kde;'s login manager</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kcontrol;</term
> <listitem
><para
>The Control Panel. Almost everything you can configure in &kde; can be configured from here - and almost everything in &kde; can be configured to your taste.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kwrite;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A highly configurable text editor, with syntax highlighting.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kappfinder;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A utility to add non-&kde; applications to your <guimenu
>K</guimenu
> menu, to avoid having to do it manually.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kscreensaver;</term
> <listitem
><para
>Everyone loves a screensaver, and &kde; comes with a generous helping.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ksysguard;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A network enabled system monitor, incorporating the added functionality of <application
>top</application
></para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ktip;</term
> <listitem
><para
>Kandalf the wizard is on hand with handy hints, and interesting info.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kmenuedit;</term
> <listitem
><para
>Rearrange or add to your <guimenu
>K</guimenu
> menu with this utility.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> </variablelist>

</chapter>

