<chapter id="edutainment-apps">
<title
>kdeedu applications</title>

<para
>You can get the following applications in the kdeedu distributions.</para>

<para
>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary formats.</para>

<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink
></para>

<para
>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you must compile them to get a working version. Remember these are unstable and might not even compile. If you have a problem with an unstable application, report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink
></para>

<variablelist
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&klettres;</term
> <listitem
> <para
> Very small children can learn the alphabet, using audio and/or visual cues. </para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kmessedwords;</term
> <listitem
> <para
> A simple mind-training game, in which you have to <quote
>figure out</quote
> the word that has been given in the program. </para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ktouch;</term
> <listitem
> <para
> A program to help you learn to touch type. </para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&keduca;</term
> <listitem
> <para
> An educational project to allow the creation and revision of form based tests/exams. </para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kstars;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>Put a planetarium on your desktop. &kstars; contains a huge amount of reference material, and includes the ability to download photographs of items you see in the heavens.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kgeo;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>Even geometry is fun with &kgeo;.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kvoctrain;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>Learning another language is easier with &kvoctrain; to practise and expand your vocabulary.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> </variablelist>

</chapter>


