<chapter id="entertainment-applications">
<title
>Entertainment Applications</title>

<para
>You can get the following applications in the kdegames distributions.</para>

<para
>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary formats.</para>

<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink
></para>
<para
>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you must compile them to get a working version. Remember these are unstable and might not even compile. If you have a problem with an unstable application, report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para
> <para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink
></para>

<variablelist
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kenolaba;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A Network enabled board game you can play against the computer or against another player on your network.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kasteroids;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A little space shoot-em-up. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&katomic;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A perplexing little logic puzzle game, where you get to build your own molecules. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kblackbox;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A &kde; rewrite of the classic <application
>Emacs</application
> blackbox game. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kbackgammon;</term
> <listitem
><para
> Backgammon, the &kde; way. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kjumpingcube;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A tactical one or two player game that's harder than it looks. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kmahjongg;</term
> <listitem
><para
> The classic tile matching game. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kmines;</term
> <listitem
><para
> Find the mines without making them explode. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&konquest;</term
> <listitem
><para
> Expand your interstellar empire across the galaxy and of course, crush your rivals in the process. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kpat;</term
> <listitem
><para
> No computer is complete without Patience. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kpoker;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A &kde; version of those addictive one armed bandits. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kreversi;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A &kde; version of the classic game. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ksame;</term
> <listitem
><para
> Addictive little logic game. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kshisen;</term
> <listitem
><para
> Another tile matching game. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ksirtet;</term
> <listitem
><para
> Play either a version of Tetris, or the well known (in Japan) game Puyo-Puyo. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ksmiletris;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A slightly different from the norm Tetris clone. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ksnake;</term
> <listitem
><para
> The classic nibbles game gets an update and a speed boost. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ksokoban;</term
> <listitem
><para
> Push those crates to get where you need to go. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kspaceduel;</term
> <listitem
><para
> Shoot your enemy down, in a challenging two player arcade game. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ktron;</term
> <listitem
><para
> Classic keep-away - keep away from your foe, the walls, and your own tail. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ktuberling;</term
> <listitem
><para
> One for the little ones, who could resist the potato guy? </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&lskat;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A tricky card game </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> </variablelist>
</chapter>

