<chapter id="graphical-applications">
<title
>Graphical Applications</title>

<para
>You can get the following applications in the kdegraphics distributions.</para>

<para
>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary formats.</para>

<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink
></para>

<para
>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you must compile them to get a working version. Remember these are unstable and might not even compile. If you have a problem with an unstable application, report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink
></para>

<variablelist
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kuickshow;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>A fast and powerful image viewer</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ksnapshot;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A utility to grab screenshots. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kfract;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A little fractal generator </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kview;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A powerful image viewer, capable of handling a multitude of formats. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kghostview;</term
> <listitem
><para
> &kde;'s own &PostScript; viewer. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kfax; and <application
>KViewFax</application
></term
> <listitem
><para
> Utilities to view and handle facsimile images. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kdvi;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A &DVI; viewer. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kruler;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>A screen ruler, very useful for working with images or <acronym
>HTML</acronym
> pages.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> </variablelist>

</chapter>

