<chapter id="multimedia-applications">
<title
>Multimedia Applications</title>

<para
>You can get the following applications in the kdemultimedia distributions.</para>

<para
>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary formats.</para>

<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink
></para>

<para
>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you must compile them to get a working version. Remember these are unstable and might not even compile. If you have a problem with an unstable application, report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>

<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink
></para>

<variablelist
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kmix;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A sound mixer panel</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&aktion;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A player for movies and animations, with support for many formats.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&noatun;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A Media player for multimedia files, with support for many formats, playlists, and even videos.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kaboodle;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>A light, versatile, one-shot &arts; media player - no playlists, no fancy features to slow it down, just quickly play a single file.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kscd;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A &CD; Player for &kde;, with <acronym
>CDDB</acronym
> support.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kmid;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A MIDI player with support for lyrics.. your very own Karaoke machine! </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kmidi;</term
> <listitem
><para
> A nice sounding but somewhat <acronym
>CPU</acronym
> intensive MIDI player </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> </variablelist>

</chapter>

