<chapter id="network-applications">
<title
>Network Applications </title>

<para
>You can get the following applications in the kdenetwork distributions.</para>

<para
>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary formats.</para>
<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink
> </para>
<para
>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you must compile them to get a working version. Remember these are unstable and might not even compile. If you have a problem with an unstable application, report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink
></para>

<variablelist
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kmail;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A fully featured email client, allowing multiple servers and multiple identities.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&knode;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A powerful usenet news client, with support for multiple NNTP servers.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kit;</term
> <listitem
><para
>An AOL Instant Messenger client, using the <abbrev
>TOC</abbrev
> protocol.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ksirc;</term
> <listitem
><para
>An IRC Client</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&korn;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A Biff applet. <application
>Korn</application
> checks for new mail and tells you when there is mail to download from your server(s).</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kppp;</term
> <listitem
><para
>An Internet dialer.</para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&ktalkd;</term
> <listitem
><para
> Users on your network using the classic <command
>talk</command
> can still get your attention even in &kde; using &ktalkd;. </para
></listitem
> </varlistentry
> </variablelist>
</chapter>

