<chapter id="utility-applications">
<title
>Utility Applications</title>
<para
>You can get the following applications in the kdeutils distributions.</para>

<para
>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary formats.</para>

<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink
></para>

<para
>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you must compile them to get a working version. Remember these are unstable and might not even compile. If you have a problem with an unstable application, report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink
></para>

<variablelist
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kcharselect;</term
> <listitem
><para
>Character selector (shows all characters available in a given font, including those you don't have keys on your keyboard for)</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kdepasswd;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A &kde; front end to the &UNIX; <command
>passwd</command
> command.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kdessh;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A &kde; front end to <command
>ssh</command
>. </para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kdf;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A &kde; front end to the <command
>df</command
> utility, with added functionality</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kfloppy;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A floppy formatter</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kedit;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A small, simple editor, just like the well-known Notepad. It is suitable for small editing tasks, or as a simple textfile browser. </para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&karm;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A time tracker. You can enter a list of <quote
>tasks</quote
>, start &karm;'s clock, and it will count the number of minutes you spend on the highlighted task.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&khexedit;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A fully featured Hex Editor</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kjots;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A small note taker program.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&klaptopdaemon;</term
> <listitem
><para
>Provides battery monitoring and management for laptops</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kljettool;</term
> <listitem
><para
>An &HP; LaserJet Control Panel</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&klpq;</term
> <listitem
><para
>&klpq; is a frontend to <application
>lpq</application
>, <application
>lprm</application
> and <application
>lpc</application
>. </para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&knotes;</term
> <listitem
><para
>A useable and good looking notes utility.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> </variablelist>

</chapter>

