<chapter id="office-apps">
<title
>Office Applications</title>

<para
>You can get the following applications in the &koffice; distributions.</para>

<para
>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary formats.</para>

<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink
></para>

<para
>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you must compile them to get a working version. Remember these are unstable and might not even compile. If you have a problem with an unstable application, report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para
><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/"
>ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink
></para>

<variablelist
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kword;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>A powerful and fully featured frames based word processor capable of professional document layout.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kspread;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>A powerful spreadsheet application.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kpresenter;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>A presentation program that meets professional presentation requirements.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kivio;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>A flowchart and diagramming application.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kontour;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>An up and coming vector illustration application.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kugar;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>A tool for generating business quality reports.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&kchart;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>An integrated graph and chart drawing tool.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> <varlistentry
> <term
>&koshell;</term
> <listitem
> <para
>A tool to help you create seamless multi application documents.</para
> </listitem
> </varlistentry
> </variablelist>

</chapter>


