<chapter id="docu-staff">
<title
>Epilogue </title>

<epigraph>
<attribution
>The end of Evita</attribution>
<para
>She had her moments, she had some style, the best show in town was the crowd, outside the Casa Rosada crying 'Eva Peron'; but that's all gone now...</para
></epigraph>

<para
>We hope that you found this documentation useful, informative and perhaps even entertaining. The following things are not necessary to understand the KDE Desktop Environment, but you still may want to read it. </para>

<sect1 id="the-k-documentation-staff">
<title
>The K Documentation Staff </title>

<para
>This User Guide has been updated for 3.0, and is currently maintained by Lauri Watts <email
>lauri@kde.org</email
></para>

<para
>Others who have contributed to this guide.</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem
><para
>Pablo de Vicente <email
>vicente@oan.es</email
>, who updated the section regarding installing on Debian for KDE 2.0</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>Andreas Buschka <email
>andi@circe.tops.net</email
></para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>Robert D. Williams <email
>rwilliam@kde.org</email
></para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>Poul Gerhard</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>John Waalkes</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>Vernon Wells</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>Kay Lutz</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>Stephan Kulow</para
></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="we-still-need-people">
<title
>We still need people! </title>

<para
>KDE is a huge project, and every KDE supporter has already realised that. All of us are trying very hard to create a user interface that is easy to use and maybe also has the potential to make UNIX ready for the desktop PC. You have the chance to participate in this project too, and we would be thankful if you did. Developers and interested users communicate via several mailing lists described in <xref linkend="mailing-lists"/>. If you would like to help, please do so! We are still looking for helpers in the following departments: </para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem
><para
>Development (Libraries and Applications)</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>Documentation</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>Graphics</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>Beta-Testing</para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>and everywhere else, too :-) </para
></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="legal-notices">
<title
>Legal notices </title>

<para
>This document contains copyrighted material from Andreas Buschka, Gerhard Poul and Robert David Williams. All trademarks and branded names mentioned are properties of their legal owners. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="sources-of-information-used-during-the-creat">
<title
>Sources of information used during the creation of this book </title>

<para
>During the creation of this documentation, the authors used the following sources for information: </para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem
><para
>The KDE Mailing lists </para
></listitem>
<listitem
><para
>Various <filename
>README</filename
> and <abbrev
>HTML</abbrev
> help files that came with the KDE components </para
></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="license">
<title
>Licence</title>
&underGPL; </sect1>
</chapter>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:t
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "chapter")
End:
-->