<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % British-English "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author
>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>John</firstname
><surname
>Knight</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
>anarchist_tomato@herzeleid.net</email
></address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Conversion to British English</contrib
></othercredit
> 
</authorgroup>

<date
>2002-02-12</date>
<releaseinfo
>3.00.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword
>KDE</keyword>
<keyword
>KControl</keyword>
<keyword
>system notification</keyword>
<keyword
>notification</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="sys-notify">
<title
>System Notification Settings</title>

<para
>&kde;, like all applications, needs to inform the user when a problem occurs, a task is completed, or something has happened. &kde; uses a set of <quote
>System Notifications</quote
> to keep the user informed on what is happening.</para>

<para
>Using this module, you can determine what &kde; does to communicate each event.</para>

<para
>The panel consists of a large list of specific events which need to be communicated to the user. This list is organised into a tree, so that you can rapidly find the notification you are looking for.</para>

<para
>To configure a notification, simply click on a group, which will open up a subgroup. You can click on subgroups, which may lead to more subgroups, or it may lead to a list of notifications.</para>

<para
>Once you have found the notification you are looking for, double-click on the notification.</para>

<para
>You will be presented with 4 options:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Log to file</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>This will tell &kde; to add the notification to the end of a file. Once you place a mark in front of this option, you can enter a filename at the bottom of the module. If you click on the <guiicon
>folder</guiicon
> to the right of the blank, you can browse through your filesystem and select the file you want.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Play sound</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>When this notification is activated, &kde; will play a sound. Once you place a mark in front of this option, you can enter a filename at the bottom of the module. </para>
<para
>If you click on the <guiicon
>folder</guiicon
> to the right of the blank, you can browse through your filesystem and select the file you want.</para>
<para
>By clicking the arrow button to the right of the <guiicon
>folder</guiicon
> button, you can hear the sound.</para>

<para
>Maybe you want to use a special media player to play sound files, &eg; because you use sound files in a special format or you don't use the &arts; sound daemon. In that case, check the <guilabel
>Use external player</guilabel
> option and enter the full path and name of the program you want to use into the text field.</para
></listitem>

</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Show messagebox</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>When this notification is activated, a message box appears in the middle of the screen to inform the user of the message.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term
><guilabel
>Standard error output</guilabel
></term>
<listitem
><para
>When this notification is activated, the message is sent to the standard output.</para
></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<tip
><para
>You are not limited to choosing one option, you can use any combination of these four options for each notification.</para
></tip>

<para
>You can turn off (or on) all sounds at once, for all installed applications, with the <guibutton
>Enable All Sounds</guibutton
> or <guibutton
>Disable All Sounds</guibutton
> Button. Which of these you see depends on the current status.</para>

</sect1>

</article>