<chapter id="menu-entries">
<title>Menu Entries</title>

<sect1 id="file-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>File</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="new"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>starts a new document</action> in the editing
window.  In the <guibutton>Filelist</guibutton> on the left the new file
is named <emphasis>Untitled</emphasis>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command does not <action>open a file</action>. It
launches &kde;'s open file dialog box which waits for you
to select the files you want to open.
</para>

<para>
<!-- TODO: sorry, isn't this *way* to detailed??? (dnaber) -->
The open file dialog box works like a simple version of &konqueror;. Use
your &LMB; to click on a file name to select it. Double-click on a file
name to open that file. Once you've selected a file name, you can also
press the <guibutton>OK</guibutton> button to open the
file.
</para>
<tip>
<para>
Select multiple files by holding down the &Ctrl; or the
&Shift; key along with the &LMB;.
<keycombo action="simul">
&Ctrl;<mousebutton>Left</mousebutton>
</keycombo>
click selects one file at a time.
<keycombo action="simul">
&Shift;<mousebutton>Left</mousebutton>
</keycombo>
click selects a contiguous set of files.
</para>
</tip>

<para>
Clicking on a directory name in the file selection window
opens that directory and displays its contents.
Clicking on a file name shows a thumbnail view of the file in the
preview window to the right of the file system window.
</para>

<para>
Use the buttons and combo box on the toolbar above the file selection
window to move through the file system or to adjust the properties of
the open file dialog box.
</para>

<para>
Below the file selection window is the Location
combo  box. Type the name of the file you want to edit
here. If you click the arrow on the right of the drop down
box, you can choose from recently used files. Open several
files at once by quoting each file name.
</para>

<para>
Below the Location combo box is the Filter combo box.  Enter file masks
here to filter the kinds of files shown in the selection window. For
example, typing the filter <literal role="extension">*.txt</literal> and
pressing <keycap>Enter</keycap> will limit the display to files with a
<literal role="extension">.txt</literal> extension.  The Filter combo
contains a list of your most recently used filters.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open-recent"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open Recent</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command allows you to <action>open a file</action> from a submenu
that contains a list of recently edited files.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>saves your file</action>. Use it often. If the file is
<emphasis>Untitled</emphasis> then
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem> becomes
<guimenuitem>Save As</guimenuitem>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save-as"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save As</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Name and rename files</action> with this command.
It launches the save file dialog box. This dialog works just as
the open file dialog box does. You can use it to navigate through
your file system, preview existing files, or filter your file
view with file masks.
</para>

<para>
Type the name you want to give the file you are saving in the
Location combo box and press the
<guibutton>OK</guibutton> button.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>L</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>saves all open files</action>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="reload"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F5</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reload</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Reloads the active file from disk</action>.  This command is
useful if another program or process has changed the file while you have
it open in &kate;
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open-with"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open with</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command launches the open with dialog box that allows you to
<action>select another application to open the active
file</action>. Your file will still be open in &kate;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="print"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Print</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Print the active file</action>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="close"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>W</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Close the active file</action> with this command. If you
have made unsaved changes, you will be prompted to save
the file before &kate; closes it.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="close-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>closes all the files you have open</action>
in &kate;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="new-window"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Window</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Opens another instance of &kate;</action>.
The new instance will be identical to your previous instance.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="quit"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>closes &kate;</action> and any files you were
editing. If you have made unsaved changes to any of the files you were
editing, you will be prompted to save them.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="edit-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> Menu</title>
<para>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu contains a host of commands,
all to work with the currently active document.</para>

<variablelist>
<title>Menu Entries</title>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-undo"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Undo the last editing command (typing, copying, cutting etc.)</para>
<note><para>If grouped undo is enabled, this may undo several editing commands of the same type, like typing in characters.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-redo"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Redo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Redo the last undo step.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-cut"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>X</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Removes selected text if any, and places a copy of the removed text in the clipboard.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-copy"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies selected text, if any, to the clipboard.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-paste" />
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Paste</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies the first item in the clipboard into the editor at cursor position.</para>
<note><para>If Overwrite Selection is enabled, the pasted text will overwrite the selection, if any.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-select-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Select All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects all text in the editor.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-deselect"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Deselect</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Deselects the selected text in the editor if any.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-toggle-block-selection"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F4</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Toggle Block Selection</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggles Selection Mode. When the Selection Mode is <quote>BLOCK</quote>, you can make vertical selections,
ie select column 5 to 10 in lines 9 to 15.</para>
<para>The status bar shows the current state of the Selection Mode, either <quote>NORM</quote> or <quote>BLK</quote>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-find"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch the Find Dialog to allow you to search for text in the edited document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-find-next"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find Next</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Go to the nearest downwards match of the last text or regular expression searched for, starting from cursor position</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-find-previous"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find Previous</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Go to the nearest upwards match of the last text or regular expression searched for, starting from cursor position</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-replace"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Replace</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch the Replace Dialog to replace one or more instances of a defined text with something else.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-indent"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>I</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Indent</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><!-- FIXME LINK -->
<para>Adds one indent step to the current line, or all lines covered by a possible selection.</para>
<para>The indentation depends on the settings in the Indent Page of the Configuration Dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-unindent"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>I</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Unindent</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Removes one indent step from the current line, or all lines covered by a possible selection.</para>
<para>The indentation depends on the settings in the Indent Page of the Configuration Dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-comment"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>#</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Comment</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Enclose or prepend the current line, or any selected text, with (a) comment marker(s), according to the rules defined by the
syntax rules for the document. Does nothing if no comment rules are defined.</para>
<para>This is interesting mostly when working with source code, for example with C/C++, perl, python &etc;,
as well as with markup text like <acronym>HTML</acronym>, &XML;, <acronym>CSS</acronym> and so on.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-uncomment"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>#</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem></guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Remove comment marker(s) from the current line, or a possible selection, according to the
syntax rules for the document.
</para>
<para>See also <link linkend="edit-comment"><guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Comment</guimenuitem></link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-go-to-line"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>G</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Go to line...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launches the Go To Line Dialog, allowing you to enter the number of a line to find in
the document</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="document-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Document</guimenu>Menu</title>
<para>The <guimenu>Document</guimenu> menu has two purposes:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Allowing you to change the document-specific settings for the
currently active document.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Choosing which of the open documents to work on</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<para>A menu entry for each open document will be available below the entries documented here.
Clicking one of these will bring the requested document to focus. If you have multiple
frames, an editor for that document will be displayed in the currently active frame.</para>
<variablelist>
<title>Menu items</title>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="document-back"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Left</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Document</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Back</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This will bring the previous document in the stack in focus. If you have
multiple frames, an editor for the document will be displayed in the currently
active frame.</para> <para>The order is the order in which documents were
opened, rather than a logical history.  This behavior may change in future
versions of &kate;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="document-forward"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Right</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Document</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Forward</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This will bring the previous document in the stack in focus. If you have
multiple frames, an editor for the document will be displayed in the currently
active frame.</para>
<para>The order is the order in which the documents were opened,
rather than a logical history.  This behavior may change in future versions of
&kate;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="document-highlight-mode"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Document</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Highlight Mode</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>The <guimenu>Highlight Mode</guimenu> menu allows you to manually
decide which syntax rules to use for highlighting and
<link linkend="edit-comment"><guimenuitem>comment</guimenuitem></link>'ing
the active document. The menu groups the available syntax rule sets into logical groups.</para>
<!-- FIXME link to syntax rules chapter, when written :) -->
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="document-end-of-line"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Document</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>End of Line</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This menu allows you to manually set the End of Line mode for
the active document. Changing the mode will replace all line
separators in the document with the character sequence for the new
mode.</para>

<para>The available modes are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Unix</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem>
<para>On &UNIX; systems, end of line is a single newline
character.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>DOS</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem><para>On <acronym>DOS</acronym> (and &Windows;) systems, end
of line is represented by a carriage return followed by a
newline.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Mac</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem><para>On &Mac; systems, end of line is represented by a by a
carriage return.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="view-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>View</guimenu> menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>View</guimenu> menu allows you to manage settings
specific to the active editor, and to manage frames.</para>

<variablelist>
<title>Menu Items</title>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-split-vertical"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>L</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Split Vertical</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This will split the frame (which may be the main editing area) in two equally sized frames,
the new one to the left of the current one. The new frame gets the focus, and will display the
same document as the old one.</para>
<para>See also <link linkend="kate-mdi">Working with the &kate; MDI</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-split-horizontal"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>T</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Split Horizontal</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Splits the current frame (which may be the main editing area) in two equally sized frames,
the new one at the bottom half. The new frame gets the focus, and displays the same document as
the old one.</para>
<para>See also <link linkend="kate-mdi">Working with the &kate; MDI</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-close-current"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close Current</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Closes the active frame. This is disabled, if there is only one frame
(the main editing area).</para> <para>No documents get closed by closing a
frame &ndash; they will still be available in the <link
linkend="document-menu"><guimenu>Documents</guimenu> Menu</link> as well as in
the File List.</para> <para>See also <link linkend="kate-mdi">Working with the
&kate; MDI</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-show-icon-border"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F6</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Icon Border</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This is a toggle item. Setting it on checked will make the
<!--<link linkend="katepart-iconborder">Icon Border</link> visible in the left//-->
side of the active editor, and vice versa.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-show-line-numbers"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F11</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Line Numbers</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This is a toggle Item. Setting it on checked will make a pane displaying
the line numbers of the document visible in the left border of the active editor,
and vice versa.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-go"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Go</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-go-next-view"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F8</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Next View</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Move focus to the next frame; the order is following order of creation rather than
that of visual logic. This behavior may change in a future version of &kate;</para>
<para>See also <link linkend="kate-mdi">Working with the &kate; MDI</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-go-previous-view"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F8</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Previous View</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Move focus to the previous frame; the order is following order of creation rather than
that of visual logic. This behavior may change in a future version of &kate;</para>
<para>See also <link linkend="kate-mdi">Working with the &kate; MDI</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</listitem>

</varlistentry>



</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="bookmarks-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> menu allows you to work with
the bookmarks in the currently active document.</para>

<para>Below the entries described here, one entry for each bookmark in
the active document will be available. The text will be the first few
words of the marked line. Choose an item to move the cursor to the
start of that line. The editor will scroll as necessary to make that
line visible.</para>

<variablelist>

<title>Menu Items</title>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="bookmarks-toggle-bookmark"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Toggle Bookmark</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Sets or removes a bookmark in the current line of the active document. (If it's there, it is removed, otherwise one is set.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="bookmarks-clear-bookmarks"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Clear Bookmarks</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Clears (removes) all bookmarks of the active document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="tools-menu">

<title>The <guimenu>Tools</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>Tools</guimenu> menu contains commands of two categories:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Tools doing advanced editing of the current document,
for example <link
linkend="tools-menu-editing-command"><guimenuitem>Editing
Command</guimenuitem></link>.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>Tools adding functionality to the application, for example the
<link linkend="tools-menu-find-in-files"><guimenuitem>Find in
Files</guimenuitem></link> tool.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="tools-menu-editing-command"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>M</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Editing Command...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><!-- FIXME LINK, DOCUMENT THAT TODO: add a minimal desc here-->
<para>Launch the Editing Command Dialog</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="tools-menu-find-in-files"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find in Files...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch the Find In Files Dialog to search for a specified text in files on disk.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="tools-menu-apply-word-wrap"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Apply Word Wrap</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><!-- FIXME LINKS TEST MORE? //-->
<para>Apply word wrap to ? according to the settings in the ? </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="tools-menu-spelling"/>
<menuchoice>
<!-- <shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap></keycap><keycap></keycap></keycombo></shortcut> -->
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Spelling...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Spell check the current document using the &kde; spell checker</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


</variablelist>


</sect1>

<sect1 id="settings-menu">

<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu allows you to change the properties
of the main window, such as showing/hiding toolbars and boxes, and provides
access to the configuration dialogs.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-show-toolbar"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggles the display of the main toolbar.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-show-filelist"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Filelist</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggle the display of the &kate; Filelist</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-show-fileselector"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Fileselector</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggle the display of the &kate; File Selector</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-show-konsole"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F7</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Konsole</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggles the display of the built in terminal emulator.</para>
<para>When activated the first time, the terminal will be created.</para>
<para>When the terminal emulator is displayed, it will get the focus, so that you can start
typing in commands immediately. If the <link linkend="config-dialog-general-sync-konsole">Sync Konsole with Active
Document</link> option is enabled in the <link linkend="config-dialog-general">General Page</link> of the
<link linkend="config-dialog">Main configuration dialog</link>
the shell session will be <command>cd</command>'d to the directory of the active document, if it
is a local file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-configure-shortcuts"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Display the the familiar &kde; Keyboard Shortcut Configuration Dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-configure-toolbars"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Display the the familiar &kde; Toolbar Configuration Dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-configure-kate"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &kate;</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch the <link linkend="config-dialog">Main Configuration Dialog</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="help-menu">

<title>The <guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para><!--Surprisingly enough, //-->The <guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu provides
access to the online help available for &kate;; as well as to the usual about
dialogs.</para>

<para>As well as the standard &kde; <guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu items
described below, if you have installed the kdeaddons package with
additional &kate; plugins, you will have a menu entry to show the
Plugins User Manuals.</para>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect1>

</chapter>
